# 2018-11-07:
 * drm-legacy, status update from FreeBSD 12
 ** Status quo: still building, nothing has changed, still occasionally an issue with support.
 * xf86-video-ati and drm-legacy (pr 231884)
 ** Added xf86-video-ati-legacy to cope with old hardware, note added to pkg-message (does anybody read those?)
 ** Should add it to 12.0 release notes. Needs really good information in the documentation.
 ** No easy way to fix the technical issue due to changes in interface changes and there’s no time available to devote to this.
 * drm-devel and stolen memory
 ** Committed in current 339979
 ** Kib merged this to 12 in 340224
 * drm-stable and drm-next
 ** Confirm that drm-next is compatible with 11.2. If so, bump drm-stable to Linux 4.11 (current drm-next)
 ** Deprecate drm-next
 ** Bump drm-stable to Linux 4.16 for 12.0 once we confirmed it’s stable.
 * enabling wayland by default (pr 227509)
 ** Enable it. We need to start fixing the issues. Right now it’s too hard to build your own thing.
 ** Will run through the patch and Niclas will approve it so Jan can commit it.
 * bumping llvm version in mesa
 ** Gecko ports switched to llvm70. No need for mesa to have a different version, but we need to test it to make sure this isn’t a problem. It’s been tested by a few people outside the graphics group.
 ** Not having good testing infrastructure is slowing things down.
 ** Ideally this would happen at a different time than enabling WAYLAND (proposed: WAYLAND first, llvm70 second. WAYLAND patches further along).
 * input stack - progress update (pr 222905 and friends)
 ** Niclas working on this
 ** Libinput and other stuff
 ** Do xorg-server still need the UDEV patch to work with libinput? If so, how do we solve that? Instructions here (bottom of readme) https://github.com/wulf7/libudev-devd we’ll update libinput first, then investigate this issue to make Niclas’ life easier
 ** Johannes L is using experimental driver for i2c track pad https://reviews.freebsd.org/D16698. Works good but lack evdev support. Something that we want to add.
 ** Branch is up-to-date, but a few ports aren’t latest version. Can be found here: https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/freebsd-ports/tree/feature/input
 ** Get the branch in and update stragglers after.
 ** Input.h is defined in multiple places, and the different versions cause confusion.
 ** Our support for new input devices is lagging upstream significantly and we need to update.
 * enabling evdev in GENERIC (D16721)
 ** Patches committed to current to fix races and special cases needed for things like debuggers and panic wrt locking.
 * proposed changes to support cycle for FreeBSD 12.0
 ** Experience from Gnome/KDE support cycle suggests a shorter cycle is better
 ** There’s no problem with a shorter cycle from a graphics perspective
 ** Graphics team doesn’t aspire to support latest hardware except on latest software.
 ** Updating 12.0 past 4.16 might be difficult, the rest of the graphics ecosystem moves in lock-step and that makes it hard to support multiple versions.
 ** Recent changes are easier to back port and the graphics team can only make their best efforts to backport as the branch ages. They can’t guarantee any lifetime due to external events not our control.
 ** Goal is to support the branch as long as the project supports it.
 ** 11.3 is coming out, but additional support for GPUs newer than 4.11 will not be back ported, for example. You’d need to run 12.0 for something newer.
 * release notes
 ** Need good explanation and how to get things running
 ** Niclas will write up something
 ** Should include the major versions of GPUs that’s supported in a table (though maybe that’s just a WIKI thing that we can point things to).
 * Documentation
 ** Work to update the wiki has started. Pete Wright is leading this. Others will contribute with information.
 ** We should have a blog? Johannes will set it up
 * i386 support in drm-devel
 ** Tijl Coosemans added i386 support to drm-devel. Works good for him with radeonkms driver but no other tester yet as far as we know.
 ** Drm-devel port updated. We should let people know.
 ** Provide it as-is. Won’t get the same level of support.
 ** Make sure Tijl is ready to have it enabled and answer support questions.
 ** Matt Macy is looking at Power8 and Power9 drivers
 ** Other architectures that people wish to add support for will be provided on an as-is basis.
# Attended:
 * Niclas Zeising (zeising@)
 * Johannes Lundberg
 * Warner Losh (imp@)
 * Johannes M. Dieterich (jmd@)

