# 12.0 Plans
This leads me to propose the following as a starting point:

 1. Add loader blacklist. As there will be no fix for this forthcoming in the 12 time frame, this protects people from bad decisions on the port. The people needing this stuff need a little protection. It also doesn't force policy: those that hate it can turn it off. Kyle would be in charge of this.
 2. We tweak the installer to offer to install on x86 and powerpc the drm-kmod packages as described above. Nathan would need to do this. Niclas and Warner will look at this and touch base 2018-10-14.
 3. We add a clear note in UPDATING about what you need to do for (a) installing the package and (b) not installing the package to use things. I'd do this. Also make sure we get a release notes item.
 4. Follow up to where we had the long thread with a note outlining 1-3 above. Add to it the future plans as they are set now: (a) We'll remove dev/drm entirely in 6 months.  (b) We'll remove the intel and radeon drivers in 6 months, but the core of sys/dev/drm2 will remain. (c) we'll create the necessary firmware ports and/or fix the firmware naming issues (you guys will need to help me on this). (d) you will no longer, after 6 months, be able to build drmn.ko as a module. (e) The plan forward for arm needs to be investigated by mmel (and likely others) to see if the future there is with the linux code +  shims (a big lift, as well as some technical issues with the VM) or via some other path. The embedded folks need to own this. (f) the graphics group will provide 0 technical support to the in-tree code starting today for all active branches. I can kick off this discussion, but I'd expect someone in the graphics group to own bringing it to a conclusion and updating the plan. I'll oversee this to make sure it happens.
 5. Change over messaging in the drm modules to use drm-kmod.
 6. s some known regressions with drm-next-kmod that causes a panic. The root cause is being tracked down, but s believed to be related to either a race in the boot, or to s 4.16 changes to detect stolen memory earlier in boot, or maybe both. s also some suspend / resume issues that have been reported that may require a code change (or maybe s just a BIOS change, so s TBD).

# Drm-legacy

There were a number of issues with drm-legacy. Most of the issues are with the firmware names that mismatch between the two trees. s been upstreams in github, but ports t been updated. It should be done a few days.

People should be strongly encouraged to only use drm-legacy-kmod to architectures that t running amd64. Testing is problematical. Should stress that if you are on amd64, you should use drm-stable or drm-devel (or drm-next if we still have it around). This is true for Intel GPUs, and doubly true for AMD GPUs. You need 12.0 ALPHA8 or newer. It would be a heavy lift to make drm-legacy work on 11, so consumers should use s in base, or use drm-stable/drm-next or send patches.

We should look at articulating the list of KPIs that drm-* users so we can update the ports quickly. Right now s linuxkpi, vm_* and module infrastructure that can affect things. We should work to getting drm-* built every day, maybe talk to the CI guys (Li-Wen Hsu) to get a job running. Also, we need to make sure version is bumped at breakage if we want to be backwards compatible.

# CI / Automated testing

Due to the nature of these modules, automated run-time testing is hard. However, build breakage is easy to catch with CI setups. Testing will be limited to developer machines

Drm-kmod meta-port
 * Pull in the most-currect version of the drm-*-kmod depending on s the most correct for each architecture / version.

# Current 13 : drm-devel
 * 12.0 : drm-next     (change to drm-stable /jl -- when drm-next retired right? /wl )
 * 11.2 : drm-stable
 * Older 11 branch: no go -- too old
 * Older 12-current: drm-stable due lack of infrastructure support
 * Generally -- ll try to support a couple of months of support for current, where s possible and not buren some. Where less time possible, that should be communicated.
 * Drm-next vs drm-stable
 ** Drm-next supports more hardware, but disables some hardware acceleration due to regressions. Drm-stable has the hardware acceleration, but t support the newest hardware.
 ** A related note, we should come up with a matrix of supported hardware for the release notes. Johannes Lundberg working on it. Johannes Dietrich will advise on AMD GPU hardware. We should communicate that graphics works with all recent laptops for AMD GPUs. s less true for Intel. For both, the absolute latest GPUs require drm-devel. Kaby Lake works, need to check the details with those in the community that are on the cutting edge.

# Drm-devel
 * Regressions present and on kaby lake we sometimes get panics deep down in the VM subsystem. In 4.16 Linux moved detection of stolen memory moved to early boot. Should have been OK, but s an issue.  If we need to get a patch for usability into 12.0 we still can do that, but if s just cosmetic, then ll have to wait. Johannes L to make a patch. Johannes L will make a patch for Niclas to test this week. Matt reports a suspend/resume bug. s unclear if this is due to our code, or a BIOS.

# Userland
re behind on X server. re behind on the XInput stack. Some people want 18.2, but re on 18.1. Mesa  updates are available, but s only test on one GPU. It needs to work on all our intel / amd GPUs. And this is only for amd64, the other architectures have not been tested. s no test plan. Johannes D and Niclas will come up with a list to be used for acceptance criteria that we have some confidence s a good release. Will include not only mesa, but also X server and XInput.
Next Steps? Anything else?

Welcoming people to contribute. However, we need patches to make things work. Some functions need to be implemented to support the old platforms, but s a number of tricky technical issues. The support model is maturing for older architectures such that we need need someone to contribute code more than in the past. s fewer kernel developers for i386 these days, but s still a continuing need for updating that t happening so s becoming more of a burden than it has been in the past when all the development tended to happen as a side effect of other efforts.

Wayland related things - get it into ports and have GTK etc include Wayland backend by default. All bits are already prepared as various new ports and as options in existing ports. /JL

Commit bit for JL?
