# 2018-12-05: Agenda
 * Release notes
 ** Written up and edited, sent to gjb who has added them to the official release notes (edited).
 ** Add a link in them to the wiki
 * Renaming drm-kmod ports and supported driver and FreeBSD version combinations
 ** Rename first.
 ** Create different versions for each version of FreeBSD for the ports
 ** Drm-devel is -current only and will be a moving target. Hard to support old versions due to changes to lkpi needing to be back ported.
 ** FreeBSD 12.0 will Linux 4.16, and this will be merged into quarterly branch. 12.1 might have newer version in the future, TBD.
 ** Rename drm-devel to drm-current
 ** FreeBSD 11 will have 4.11 now that the regressions have been fixed from 4.9->4.11
 ** 4.11 will be supported for 12.0 in case of regressions. No guarantees about support for the duration of the stable branch.
 ** 4.9 will be removed.
 ** Create drm-experimental which is snapshots of what Johannes Lundberg is working on, for current only, and has no guarantees at all.
 ** FreeBSD -current missing bits to allow 4.18-based driver to compile.
 ** Johannes is pushing to 4.20 as quickly as possible since that includes power9 big endian fixes which are hard to backport. Johannes has 4.19 working with out of tree LKPI changes that Matt Macey will integrate once 4.20 is working.
 ** Drm-legacy running in 13 and 12. Strongly encouraging people to encourage move to port from base version
 ** Drm-legacy doesn’t build for arm/arm64. Manu will create a patch to just omit it entirely since it never worked on arm/arm64 (the arm support is in-kernel only).
 * Bumping llvm version in mesa
 ** llvm70 already used for gecko ports
 ** It’s been running fine on Nicklas’ intel laptop
 ** Time to upgrade unless new regressions are discovered
 ** Pete will test on his hardware
 ** https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=230789
 ** There’s now a global switch for llvm switch: do we do our own thing or just use the global. Leaning towards using the global version. Add note to llvm.mk file to give graphics team a heads up before bumping it.
 ** Amd64 has to be solid, but arm64 and others can be less well tested since its less common. Should test new versions on a few intel and amd graphics card before bump (both for llvm version and mesa version).
 * Input stack
 ** Move input headers to its own port to allow independent updating.
 ** Make sure we don’t break any consumers.
 ** Once this is done, we can patch libinput as well as its consumers
 ** Goal is to have everything working with libinput and evdev.
 ** WIP is in the ports tree in freebsd-graphic’s github.
 ** Hope to be done before end of year, maybe before Christmas, but time is scarce.
 ** May need some additional kernel work in the future, to keep up with Linux and upstream, but the details are unclear
 ** WIP here: https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/freebsd-ports/tree/feature/input-ports and here: https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/freebsd-ports/tree/feature/input
 ** PRs: https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=233787 , https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=222905
 * I386 and ppc64 support
 ** Nothing new to report, will push to next meeting.
 ** Ppc64 blocked on 4.20 support in drm-kmod
 * arm/arm64 support
 ** Mmel@ started a new port of Linux 4.19 for his tegra driver, based on some drm-next code.
 ** Can’t use drm-next without doing a year or two of doing compat work (to make our kernel look like theirs -- they are different) and because drm drivers are GPL which prevent us to include it in the kernel, which is required sometimes in embedded.
 ** mmel@ porting the tegra, manu@ porting to Allwinner
 ** Goal is to BSDify the GPL code, drivers and drm main code to be confined to sys/arm, can move to a generic location when other stuff needed.
 ** Arm guys to coordinate with Johannes Lundberg to not conflict on the kernel support routines.
 ** Plan to keep the drm part updated as Linux moves forward, but won’t be chasing it unless there’s new features to drm requiring it.
 ** WIP pointer: https://github.com/strejda/drmlib
 * Documentation
 ** Cut over to the updated wiki. The initial work is complete, but needs to be maintained as we rename ports, move them to new versions, etc. In addition, as FAQs come up, we’ll update them in the wiki.
 ** Hopes to write a blog post on how to get x11 working on a new laptop.
 * Testing/CI
 ** Not talked to Li-Wen Hsu
 ** Hope to at least load the drivers to make sure the driver symbols are all satisfied.
 ** Still a work in progress
 ** Niclas hopes to expand random graphics hardware to test more stuff (hard to find earlier generation AMD graphics hardware).
 ** Need to come up with an acceptance list to make sure that things work on a minimal set of hardware considered representative of user needs
 ** Need a good way to build ports automatically from github, talk to zeising@ please. So when a new version is pushed to a given branch, port / pkg is built automatically for testing / distribution.
 * Mesa 18.3.0
 ** Goal is to have it in ports in the new year after we have the 2019Q1 branch
 ** On 18.1.x now. We should skip 18.2 completely and move directly to 18.3.0.
 ** Q1 branch will stay 18.1 unless we need to move to 18.3 to pick up security fixes.
 ** Still need to add XA tracker support. Enable for i386 and amd64. Graphics driver passthru in vmware. Get better performance and also need it to run drm driver in vmware. Other platforms can be enabled when we have support for Gallium on those platforms.
 * New release of pixman
 ** New release and patches for ports
 ** Arm / arm64 fixes has been committed separately.
 ** Next step to make it ready for exprun, as requested by portmgr.

# Attended:
 * Niclas Zeising (zeising@)
 * Johannes Lundberg
 * Warner Losh (imp@)
 * Pete Wright
 * Manu Vadot (manu@)
