### 2019-06-26
*   11.3 release
    *   Issues downloading the images
    *   Johannes L tried the RC1 image, that works with drm-fbsd11.2-kmod, we’re good for 11.3.
*   VirtualBox drm driver
    *   Vboxvideo from virtualbox port does not build from Xorg 1.19+. Seems like they switched to the in kernel drm driver. Initial port done in drm-v5.0 branch. Same problem as vmware, vt does not refresh when typing, only when switching. X with modesetting and Wayland (Sway) ok-ish.
    *   Reach out to virtualbox maintainers about the situation before we push xserver 1.20.
*   Look at ports change to tie in the ports local stuff so kernel rebuilds rebuild the port…
*   Wayland support in FreeBSD
    *   Sway working OK, but X apps run inside that don’t work
    *   One issue is logind / systemd interface (myfreeweb working on logind shim?)
    *   AMD / Radeon still supporting X11
*   Libxatracker
    *   Committed.
*   Drm 5.0
    *   Lots of low hanging fruit here but not much progress lately. Changes at $work takes up lots of time.
    *   Pete has been testing. Some folks find it works perfectly, others have issues.
    *   Plan is to get 5.0 mostly finished before specializing for different FreeBSD versions.
*   Mesa-llvm80
    *   One error but most things look great.
    *   A number of changes need to be upstreamed
    *   Getting close to being done. Will update llvm80 branch soon.
*   FreeBSD testing by GPU vendors
    *   What would be useful today?
    *   What would we want in the future
    *   Trying to bring up the Intel GPU test suite
        *   https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/drm/igt-gpu-tools#igt-gpu-tools
*   Documentation
    *   Pete still needs to reach out to Benedict regarding ASCIIDOC
*   Works in progress
    *   Libdrm needs stuff upstreamed -- FreeDesktop.org folks are easy to work with
    *   Big infrastructure set of changes to improve xorg support inside of ports - https://reviews.freebsd.org/D20724
    *   Should have time to update mesa port and then xorg server 1.20
    *   Lots of applications and xorg libraries have been updated
    *   Xwayland requires a more recent xorg server
    *   Xorg patch set getting unwieldy
        *   most of it devd related (autotools related, makes it hard)
        *   Moving to epoll/udev shims should help a lot
        *   Should get rid of devd stuff since epoll/udev support since all recent versions use it (though we may need it for 11.3 and 12.0 still).
    *   Update for xdm in one of the branches (7 years of changes from upstream)
        *   https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/freebsd-ports/commit/780183a437c5ecc8fbf2e841a20c2900a7bc01ed
    *   VT refresh in virtual machines.

Attended
*   Johannes Lundberg
*   Warner Losh
*   Niclas Zeising
*   Pete Wright
*   Scott Long
*   Johannes Dietrich
