### 2019-10-09 *PRELIMINARY*
*   Linux DRM 5.0 branch for 12.1R is done, no port created yet (LLVM cleanup)
    *   Niclas to move it up
*   Jenkins stuff has caught a build breakage. Coincidentally, right after the last issue. (opt_epoch.h)
*   Jenkins didn’t catch vm changes causing panic drm-current-kmod (since fixed)
    *   Jenkins is build-time not run-time (yet)
    *   Future work: smoke test loading drm module (ideally in FreeBSD CI)
    *   Can we use FreeBSD official VM images to test load modules? Do they come with ssh login ready?
*   Kernel source building: we disable on cross builds
    *   Still have issue with /boot/module vs /boot/kernel when things build after install
    *   Conflict between module updating from pkg vs src build.
    *   [https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=240915](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=240915)
        *   Pilot error, but maybe one we need to guard against
        *   Warner will look at the bug after the meeting
    *   Warner to talk to John Baldwin on Friday about better ways to cope with this issue.
*   libx11 and libxvmc updates are pending
    *   Both are done, but other updates needed to xorgproto later in the month
    *   Need to remove deprecated items for xorg proto to go in (lots of legacy sutff must be removed for the update to libx11 and libxvmc since the legacy stuff is in the way).
*   Lots of deprecated stuff was removed Oct 1st. The rest of the stuff will be removed in Nov 1st. All this stuff is still in quaterly branch.
*   Xorg update (nothing to report, apart from deprecation efforts)
*   Llvm90 update happened
    *   All mesa ports back at llvm80 due to large number of regressions.
    *   Mesa upstream isn’t ready for llvm 90
*   MESA 19.0
    *   Branch on github
    *   Something like 19.0.8 (last version with autotools)
    *   Next version will have ‘meson’ and other things that will take a while to get going.
        *   Current port split a poor match to new meson system
    *   Lots of trickery to split out the different parts of Mesa done for autotools, but not for meson yet.
    *   Need to investigate whether it’s better to merge all mesa stuff into one port, or to do the work to maintain the current split. Unclear what the best path forward is.
*   [https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=240964](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=240964) x11-toolkits/qt5-gui
    *   Should just use <linux/input.h>
    *   Could also fix using header guards, but just using linux/input.h is better
    *   Solution: Revert: 

        https://github.com/qt/qtbase/commit/e6d0d202f3c3f296b6865a63d87a7c9182b63ae2.

*   No work done on updating drm modules past Linux 5.0.
    *   Need to improve the ease with which we configure VM images.

Attending: Warner Losh, Niclas Zeising, Tobias Berner, Johannes Lundberg
