# 2019-02-27: Agenda
 * Deorbit drm from base
 ** Committed, a couple of stray directories that need to be removed
 * DRM-legacy and current i386
 ** Drm-legacy-kmod has issues when PAE are enabled (which is the default)
 ** Nobody has reported they are working on it, workaround should be good.
 ** Add documented workaround to wiki.
 * DRM kmod progress update
 ** As for non-powerpc, v5.0 is looking good.
 ** v5.0-rc8 is running with a minor memory leak on i915kms, no problems on amdgpu.
 ** Changes to be committed to base are almost ready to be put on phabricator. 
 ** Once needed changes are in base, we’ll add an experimental port to start wider testing by interested people.
 * Documentation
 ** Pete has got docbook up and running
 ** He’s read through the current docs, and has ideas for making it better
 * CI
 ** Li-Wen Hsu has something experimental setup to build the drm modules every day, at least, to ensure no surprise compile breakage.
 ** Ball is rolling, and should move to production in the next week or two.
 ** New mailing address / alias for build breakage.
 ** Maybe have CI integration for the gitter channel.
 ** KDE folks are using Jenkins based CI on a pair of FreeBSD machines to do KDE upstream regression testing.
 ** Libudev-devd and epoll-shim are using cirrus CI for build testing.
 * Mesa 1.19
 ** Still release candidate, no release yet
 ** Will add to development repo, but not yet
 * Xserver 1.20.4
 ** Updated development repo locally, but it broke. Plan is to work through that get the new version out to get freedback.
 ** KDE folks are running it and testing it there, as soon as possible
 ** Plan is to jump to 1.20 from 1.18. Maybe go via 1.19, but only if there’s too many regressions in 1.20.
 ** Enabling udev on 1.18 has helped. Do we want to make it a make option? It is a make option for the port, disabled by default (due to need a custom kernel).
 * ARM/ARM64 Update
 ** PINEBOOK work coming along, issues with HDMI
 ** manu@ hopes to present at AsiaBSDcon with his pinebook
 ** mmel@ has been implementing the needed linux compat hooks, including memory sharing between userland and current. Manu will rebase on top of this. https://github.com/strejda/drmlib/commits/master
 ** CMA in drm. Used on arm devices for non-dedicated memory. In upstream, this is  gpl2 code, and we’re rewriting to be BSDL.
 * Shim to support hot plugging of USB devices. Linux has moved on to udisk2 (is this right?)
 ** it is bsd licensed and developed by arrowd@ https://bitbucket.org/arrowd/bsdisks/src
# Attended:
 * Niclas Zeising (zeising@)
 * Warner Losh (imp@)
 * Manu Vadot (manu@)
 * Pete Wright
 * Johannes Dieterich (jmd@)
 * Tobias Berner (tcberner@) from KDE
