# 2019-02-13: Agenda
 * Deorbit drm from base
 ** Warner needs to get the review out. He’s been delayed by real life.
 ** The changes done, just needs to create a review.
 * Drm-legacy and current i386
 ** Haswell is the latest supported
 ** Fixed after kib’s latest changes (build breakage fixed)
 ** ttm broken by kib’s change (functional maybe? unclear)
 ** Graphics team has no way to test, reports that we have issues when the driver loaded. See x11 https://lists.freebsd.org/pipermail/freebsd-x11/2019-February/022754.html for details. Revert to pre-kib change fixes, it seems.
 ** Demand seems low for this based on testing to date.
 * DRM kmod progress update
 ** Not much progress, we’ll try to get 4.20 and 5.0 level going before too much.
 ** Once we’re building the latest, we’ll add it to the drm-exp-kmod as soon as the changes to base are in.
 ** Changes to base are still incomplete.
 ** Vmware working nice in 4.16, but has issues from 4.20 that need to be sorted out.
 * Quarterly report
 ** We’re done, waiting for things to be sent out.
 * Documentation
 ** Second documentation goal is to get a blog or wiki up for a working Sway configuration.  Effort to dial in a set of env-vars and configs will need to be done before pushing out a full fledged blog post.
 * PRs
 ** Need to come up with clear guidance on where bugs go. It’s a bit of a mess now. Niclas will come up with guidelines for where to put which types of options.
 * CI
 ** Came up due to driver breakage.
 ** Niclas will talk to Li-Wen Hsu to get some level of CI to make sure we catch big breakage fast.
 * Input stack
 ** Pushed the latest a week ago, and Niclas hasn’t heard anything bad going on, so it must be working.
 ** We’ll need to do more work to support modern devices (but keyboard, mouse, trackpad, etc) are working.
 * Mesa regressions
 ** Pr235487
 ** Pr235203
 ** Plan is to tell people not to use the mode-setting driver since the other driver works. Won’t revert MESA updates over this.
 * Mesa 19.0
 ** Enable xatracker for vmwgfx (zeising on it)
 ** 19.0 rc3 was just released, so it’s not even released. Deferring until next meeting.
 * Xserver 1.20.3
 ** “Monster xorg update ticket”. Pete created a branch, got it building, but not stable. Issues are not well understood. He plans to rebuild everything in case it’s a built mismatch or something else. Will poll x11@ list.
 ** https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/freebsd-ports/tree/feature/xserver-1.20
 ** Original PR: https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=196678
 ** Add more PCI IDs to drm 4.16. What’s been done?
 ** We shouldn’t add PCI IDs that aren’t upstream. Too risky.
 ** Will add comment to issue 122 and close the issue.
 ** https://github.com/FreeBSDDesktop/kms-drm/issues/122

# Attended:
 * Niclas Zeising (zeising@)
 * Warner Losh (imp@)
 * Manu Vadot (manu@)
 * Pete Wright
 * Johannes Dieterich (jmd@)
 * Johannes Lundberg (johalun@)
