### 2019-09-11
*   Which DRM version to ship with 12.1R
    *   Currently linux 4.16 is the only version for stable/12 (same as 12.0R)
    *   The changes needed for linux 5.0 drivers have been merged, but with one exception. To cope with the exception, we’ll fork linux 5.0 branch to create a 12.1R specific branch.
    *   5.0 hasn’t been made the default yet. 12.1 R is scheduled for Nov 4, 2019.
    *   Given the timelines, the plan is to leave 4.16 the default for 12.1R, but create a linux 5.0 port which could give us time to get it tested. Should make 5.0 the default soon as well.
    *   Sometimes virtual console don’t update properly on internal displays. External displays are fine (only known issue with 5.0R). So far only run on Intel hardware.
    *   Niclas hopes to get the time to move drm-current-kmod to 5.0, as well as test it on hardware. Will validate the src LOCAL_MODULES stuff still works. Weekend at the earliest.
    *   Will run for a few weeks on 5.0 and make a decision about 12.1R (most likely, it will not become the default).
    *   Johannes has a commit needed for the drm branch to cope with the MFC of his changes into stable/12.
*   Building ports kmods with src (kernel) aka LOCAL_MODULES
    *   Had some unexpected problems during cross builds.
    *   Only solves half the problem regarding disconnect between base and port kmods
    *   Modules built with kernel has a race case if you’ve not updated: kernel sources could be too old for new packages, or old packages may have issues with newer kernels. Resolution TBD.
    *   Won’t be in 12.1R.
*   How can we solve the base <> ports kmod disconnect that cause a lot of headache.
    *    Can external kmods’ source be fetched/updated and built automatically on kernel build, bypassing ports completely? 
    *   Or, similarly to DKMS, build the kmod from source on ‘pkg install’.
    *   Nvidia driver has similar issues… It too breaks from time to time and needs a seemless solution.
    *   And probably virtualbox too...
*   Move to remove xorg ports that have been deprecated upstream. Easy to remove, but also easy to bring back if there’s demand.
*   Looking at xorg modules upstream that aren’t yet FreeBSD ports.
*   Updated a number of applications and libraries that have been released.
*   Future work: look at MESA using llvm 9 and newer versions of MESA. Large tasks and not easily done in small chunks. Pete and Niclas to look into that.
*   Continued to triage PRs.
*   Need to find ways to reduce the load of tracking upstream works in progress. Will investigate ways to pull from xdesktop’s gitlab or other ways.
*   Wayland upgrade is stalled due to regression. Also need to have a more considered discussion about logind, but that requires new functionality in base.
