### 2019-05-22: Agenda
*   11.3 Release: what do we need to do to support it? 11.3 scheduled for July 9th, but we should aim to resolve all issues by June 5. No changes as far as linuxkpi/drm drivers go. Just make sure everything works.
    *   Build usb memstick test images for wider testing.
    *   Debate between using the first beta image and rolling our own poudriere image.
*   Documentation
    *   Update the handbook to reflect latest docs.
    *   11.3 a good target for doing this
    *   Pete and Ed’s intern may be able to help.
*   Drm-kmod update
    *   All patches for 5.0 committed to head and all will be MFCd to stable/12 within a few days.
    *   Drm-devel-kmod port created
    *   Make 5.0 default for 12.1 and CURRENT once regarded stable enough.
    *   Decision date for 5.0 in 12.1 release at September 1.
    *   Prepare for update to linux 5.2 which includes the virtualbox drm driver.
    *   Make 5.0 default in -current by late June to allow proper testing
*   5.0 regressions
    *   Virtual console does not repaint after loading i915kms (but repaints at vt switch). Only Niclas laptop reported so far. Johannes will take a look.
*   I2C touchpad suspend/resume issues
    *   [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D16698](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D16698)
    *   Try reset ig4 controller at resume
*   Xorg 1.20
    *   Johannes tested on amd system. Compiled with UDEV backend it works great. Mouse not working with DEVD backend.
*   Libxatracker
    *   Get port committed [https://reviews.freebsd.org/D20153](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D20153)
    *   Johannes will commit if someone gives approval

Attended
*   Johannes Lundberg
*   Warner Losh
*   Niclas Zeising
