# 2019-01-16: Agenda
 * Bumping LLVM version in mesa
 ** Supposed to happens start of January, but has been delayed.
 ** Plan is to push the custom version for this quarterly branch and then migrate to the normal infrastructure quarter. This plan allows us to roll back if there’s something crazy currently-unknown problem.
 * Input stack
 ** Giant patch merged before new years.
 ** Latest version of libinput is 1.12.5, we have 1.12.4 in development repo. Niclas will update to 1.12.5, though it’s not as urgent as prior updates.
 ** Libudev-devd patches plus patches for epoll-shim library. We’ll need to update these to the latest snapshots. Niclas cutting releases instead of having a dated snapshot.
 ** Niclas started working on meson build infrastructure to get to know it, starting with the above items.
 ** Some discussions on mailing list with sway and wayland wrt input stack. It seems to be working great. Easier to configure in sway than in X.
 ** Pete to make a quick blog post on setup to try to get people using his setup for sway and our input stack.
 ** Add sysctls with device info for /dev/input/* stuff: https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18694
 * Sway
 ** Seems to be mostly working now.
 ** There’s some rough edges with the beta, but it’s in a good, usable state.
 ** Unsure if the crashes are due to FreeBSD specific issues, or if it’s generic.
 ** Worst problems around X11 - Wayland apps.
 ** Pete will test jan’s weston branch and gnome3 backends that use wayland rendering.
 ** Weston branch: https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/myfreeweb/weston.git
 * Deorbit legacy drm from base
 ** Warner to produce  a phab review by Jan 21st
 * Quarterly report
 ** Due at the end of January
 ** Should update the outline before we turn the outline into human readable form
 * Drm kmod progress update
 ** Johannes Lundberg working on 4.20 last we heard. Changes required in base to get it running. Matt Macy still had the changes for 4.18 in flight, and then he’ll do more changes for 4.20.
 ** Depending on timing and size of 4.20 changes, we may do a 4.18 exp first as a stepping stone to get to 4.20. 4.16 has some stability issues that 4.18 addresses. https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18041
 ** Plan is to get 4.20 running as the experimental branch soon. It’s the first version with good big endian PowerPC support.
 * Mesa 18.3
 ** Niclas will update the repo so that packages are easier to build
 ** Good to get done soon
 * arm/arm64
 ** Good progress on drm by manu@ on arm64. Can run xorg server
 ** manu@ hopes to have something working on pinebook before fosdem
 ** Once driver is stable, they can cleanup code for release and integrate into the tree.
 * Documentation
 ** Ping form Ed Maste. Coop students had trouble installing the new drm stuff following the instructions in the handbook.
 ** There was a phab review that started to update things
 ** Will loop in bsddocs people as well as Ed’s coop students

# Attended:
 * Niclas Zeising (zeising@)
 * Johannes Dieterich
 * Warner Losh (imp@)
 * Pete Wright
 * Manu Vadot (manu@)
