# 2021-07-12 Graphics Meeting Notes

Restarting the note taking for the meeetings

Attendees: Emmanuel Vadot, Niclas Zeising, Tobias Berner, Adriaan de Groot, Warner Losh

- ast driver changes - landed and reporter confirmed working.
- New Xorg server has a new development snapshot for 1.21
  - Preview release out
  - Unclear if there will be a proper release or just snapshots
- New PRs with old bugs, old PRs with new comments
- libdrm / mesa update
  - Manu has update ready for both of these
  - briefly tested today, lightly testing
  - Updating reviews as manu finds/fixes bugs
  - Hope to commit early next week
  - Need to cleanup some issues wrt drm driver
  - Want subpackages so we can avoid double compiles, poudriere folks have some issues they are ironing out before it goes in.
  - Plan to give people the weekend to test before committing next week.
  - https://reviews.freebsd.org/D31003
  - https://reviews.freebsd.org/D31165
- drm 5.5 driver has landed
  - Had for a year, but only working on amd gpu
  - Wulf finished bits for linuxkpi and drm parts
  - drm-devel has been updated
    - some issues have been reported with amd gpu
    - otoh, some reports of newly working hardware
    - We were on 5.4 LTS and hope to eventually transition to 5.10 LTS
    - 5.5 is next step towards that goal
  - OpenBSD simplifies a lot of things by avoiding linuxkpi and/or not dealing with SMP aspects.
  - A big issue moving forward is that starting in 5.6, drivers require the ability to partially map a buffer, which we don't yet have support for in linuxkpi.
  - Experimental efforts for 5.6 and 5.7 stalled on needing that functionality.
  - Manu's currently planning time for this work in August
- kde status: everything is broken and it's Adriaan's Fault.
  - he's fixing the dependencies so that build and testing dependencies aren't installed unnecessarily.
    - https://xkcd.com/1172/ must be avoided :)
  - Turtle can't speak Albanian
  - Upside is that the dependency tree is much smaller which helps all the FreeBSD live systems. (Alex, HelloSystems)
  
