# FreeBSD Git / Workflow Working Group Agenda

Attendees:
* Warner Losh (imp@)
* Glen Barber (gjb@)
* Merv Hammer
* Marc Branchaud
* Kristof Provost (kp@)
* Konstantin Belousov (kib@)
* Ed Maste (emaste@)
* Ken Bynell
* Stefan Esser (se@)
* Brooks Davis (brooks@)

Deprived of a way to attend for the second time going, despite raising the issue 7 weeks ago: Pau Amma

This document contains the agenda for the next meeting.

Our next meeting is at 19:00 UTC October 27, 2021.

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/jhc-qgry-qda

We'll take notes at: https://hackmd.io/ydgsBTHZTj6Ne9qoqOn1Ng

- Welcome
- Set Working Group Goals: Continue working on a plan
  - Create a few major items and put name(s) next to each of them
    - CI on (lwhsu, asommers, merv hammer?)
        - Running on 'runners', most FreeBSD version are available
        - CirrusCI can run anything we publish tot the cloud
        - CirrusCI will need care and feeding so downstream projects aren't broken
        - Cheri has config files that call back to their Jenkins servers
        - Brooks can provide copies of config files for us adopt for FreeBSD
        - Warner will talk with lwshu to gauge the interest in all the details of the CHERI's CI system.
        - Triggers only against some branches
        - CHERI cuts a lot of things out to make things faster.
    - Bugzilla (koobs)
        - It's koobs' baby
    - Phabricator
        - Revisit after 3 months
    - Long term goals for FreeBSD Project document
        - Little current interest
    - Short term pain points to focus on
      - git arc improvements
      - phabricator / git integration
      - documentation
    - Others?
  - Get rough timelines for each of these
- Next Meeting
  - Time to be friendlier to Asia
  - Next week, early Wednesday Asia time, late Tuesday for
    everybody else.
  - Request for text-only meetings: poll for sentiment
      - Pau Amma would like to go on record as objecting that letting him attend depends on public sentiment and not on the code of conduct.
      - People have noted that there's a transcript / close captioning feature in Google meet that can provide real-time closed captions to the meeting that are mostly accurate (but with some issues with names and foreign words or both).
