# 2021-10-20 Workflow Refinement Working Group

Attending:
* Warner Losh (imp@)
* Glen Barber (gjb@)
* Brooks Davis (brooks@)
* Alan Somers (asomers@)
* Merv Hammer
* Dave Cottlehuber (dch@)
* Shawn Webb
* Faraz Vahedi
* Konstantin Belousov (kib@)
* Ed Maste (emaste@)
* Stefan Esser (se@)

Tried to attend but couldn't due to inaccessible format despite raising concerns with the organizer weeks ago:
* Pau Amma

## Agenda (copied from agenda.md file, to be editing during the meeting)

Our next meeting is at 19:00 UTC October 20, 2021.

Meeting	link: https://meet.google.com/jhc-qgry-qda

- Welcome
- Set Working Group Goals
  - We need a plan for a plan
  - We need to partition the work
- Subgroups
  - Now the right time to create them?
- Meeting Times
  - How often?
  - Split times to allow more participation?
  - Best way to meet
  - - Pau Amma: something text-based so I can attend.

- what to focus on
    - CI
    - Github pull request vs Gitlab merge request
    - kib: Linear History on main branch highly desirable
    - swebb: likes
    - brooks: would like to see more merges
    - merv: linear history scales better than histories that support merges
    - had feeder branches certified as stable before going into main branch
    - kib: not a huge harm from having a commit that's broken
        - Maybe better to fix it to build the generated files at kernel build time not checkin time
        - Does this imply not doing per-commit/per-push CI builds?
    - build is shorter than running all of the tests
    - phabricator needs to stick around for a long time, at least so we can go look at context for old commits.
    - docs (including manual pages) probably have different CI requirements (check markup, render), and need fast turnover not to get thrown off the groove

## CI

- aren't full builds on each commit painful? (merv@)
- not too bad in practice, look at Cheri's example from brooks@
- we have some options from Microsoft etc (imp@)
- ports might need some care, many core builds are heavy on the dependencies (most compilers) (dch@)
- tests are more important, and heavier usage (kib@)
- what about speeding builds? ccache, NO_CLEAN, skipping compiler (gjb@)

next steps

- consensus we should do this
- do some experiments to get a feel for costs

## Code Reviews

- the elephant - what about phab??
- we need to keep phab at least readonly because context & history is critical (kib)
- self-hosted stuff means a lot of possibilities for breakage, accounts, maintenance (shawn)
- where do we keep the history - should we use mailboxes for this? (dch@)
- conflicting reports - integrated tools suck vs too many accounts (imp@)

## BugZilla

- Working well enough
- Finding information a little harder
- Should look at more integrated things, but there's not a huge gain over what we have
- We likely should customize it further

## GitHub/GitLab

- self hosted vs 3rd party hosted is a later discussion
- For 3rd party hosting, deplatforming is a concern
- OAUTH issues using third-party authentication (twitter, facebook, google, etc.) during an external outage should also be considered
- Have plenty of other issues to consider first

## Meta issues

- Single sign in, OAUTH, etc to support github/gitlab/google/etc
- Tends to be friction because they are all separate
- there is a massive amount of "project" tooling and automation, as well as personal committers stuff
- information overload
