# FreeBSD Git / Workflow Working Group Agenda

Attendees:
* Warner Losh (imp@)
* Li-Wen Hsu (lwhsu@)
* Philip Paeps (philip@)
* Kubilay Kocak (koobs@)
 
This document contains the agenda for the next meeting.

Our next meeting is at 03:00 UTC November 4, 2021

Meeting link: https://meet.google.com/jhc-qgry-qda

We'll take notes at: https://hackmd.io/ydgsBTHZTj6Ne9qoqOn1Ng

- Welcome
    - Philip wants to learn about the cluster stuff and offload Li-Wen
    - Li-Wen wants to expand the cluster, not just for CI but for other groups as well
    - Li-Wen's time is limited for this (should be better in Q4)
    - Finishing git commit hooks and move those into a repo so that we can get patches / changes (either as an individual repo or admin branch)
    - Continue working on pre-commit test and building release artifact with CI
    - Koobs most interested in high level and where we have overlaps between the tools or the flows.
        - github admin
        - wiki admin
        - bugmeister / bugzilla
- Current CI state and how to move some tasks into before the commit CI pipelines
    - What work is there?
    - What needs to be done?
    - Building images, testing, running virtual machines
    - All these tests are in freebsd-ci repo (it's still an experiment with many hackish workaroundse)
    - Goal of CI repo
        - Make them as general as possible, not tied to Jenkins
        - Hopefully we can integrate these scripts into other systems
        - Also use artifacts of the CI process to be used by others (RE, snapshots)
        - Before we can have a gitlab/github need some polishing.
        - Next step setup a local gitlab instance
        - Integration with Phabricator difficult due to subversions (git may make this easier due to diff git patch integretiy)
        - Help refine build/test machine and scripts in the CI repo -- how to get them into the src tree
        - Checking the status of current test harness and fixing the broken test failures (li-wen 10-15% of time).
        - amd64 + current enabled sending stability issues for test failues.
        - Ultimate goal is for CI repo to go away and move it into base repo
    - Tasks others can do
        - Others expiment with using the CI in other systems outside of Jenkins.
        - Fixing broken tests today
    - make verify -- works but requires a lot of other setup, sysctl, and other environmental things
        - Open task: reduce the dependencies
        - Documentation on how to run smaller tests (eg cd src/bin/cat; make test to run unit tests)
    - Setup on-site gitlab instance to understand the nuts and bolts of using it.
    - The goal of having in-depth testing, we'll need to do a lot more than to just connect a few things to github and gitlab. The tests are more complicated and require a number of machines: VMs, physical servers, embedded boards, etc. Managing this complexity will be a challenge.
        - How do we integrate all this? Most other projects are user space
    - Developers and contributors need to be able to pinpoint the problem and reproduce the problem in small way. How do we make this easier. Some of this can be solved by documention, some by evagalizing, much will need to be solved by making the test harness easier to use and for developers to run a single test in a debugging env.
- Current state of Bugzilla
    - Had bugzilla for 12 years
    - Koobs interested in how we use the systems
- Larger work flow issues
    - Better support for smaller increments
    - May have some cultural changes
    - Have a good set of guiding principles
    - "big bang migrations"
    - Philip prefers more independent tools
    - Integration between code review and issue tracking
    - Possible Task: evaluating bug reports and code reviews in the same place
    - Short term vs long term focus
    - Koobs suggests having an 'acceptance criteria' document that spells out our larger goals and what are the community's needs.
    - Key problem today: lowering friction. We need people to contribute to the project to keep it alive.
        - Duplication
        - Unlinked systems
        - Make 4 or 5 systems turn into 2 or 3 we'd be in good shape.
    - How well do the different systems integrate and how much effort do we need go to use them.
- Actionable next steps
    - Create a brief set of goals
    - Do we want to setup experiments
    - Bitesized actionable items
        - eg can we import the freebsd repo
        - eg can we import the bug database
        - eg can we accept PR/MR requests with $GITHOSTING thing, how does it work
            - github PR setup now
            - gitlab?
        - can we do integration of code review and bugs
            - can we create a fork that tries to integrate into bugzilla
            - can we import phab history into gitlab to see how well it scale
    - GOAL ? : HAVE PATCHES AND BUGS IN THE SAME PLACE
    - Phab is good for developer to developer reviews, but doesn't fit so well with contributors contributed.
    - How to do the handoff between phan to bugzilla to tree...
    - Easier for fresh blood to submit bugs / patches / etc and get not only patches but also grow some of them into committers.
    - How do we live in the 'drive by PR open source culture'?
    - git work flow: uli did experiments, he got a cluster machine, did the conversion etc.
    - Need to start gathring open question, possible options, what experiments are suggested, what research can flow from that.

- NEXT STEPS
    - Boil this down into a few actionable items
    - gitlab data import experiments
    - Followup on the suggestion for recording meetings and meeting ping-ponging
