# Attendees

- Jacob Keller
- Marius Strobl
- Stephen Hurd
- Cy Schubert
- Eric Joyner
- Patrick Kelsey
- Warner Losh
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## Power-of-2 Ring Sizes

**Jacob** had a question about non-power-of-2 values for ring sizes.

**John** points out that the Chelsio driver always uses non-power-of-2
values since the actual queue has a power-of-2 number of descriptors,
but the last descriptor is always used for a special status page and
not a real descriptor.

**Stephen:** Does the Chelsio driver use masking or test-and-subtract?

**John:** It uses test-and-subtract.  There are macros in the driver
like `PIDXINCR`.

More discussion.  Assumption is that the masking was used to avoid a
branch, but with conditional instructions like `cmov`, there might not
even be any branches in the test-and-subtract case either.

For now **Jacob** will add a patch that clamps the descriptor count to
a power of 2 rather than failing.

## Interrupt routing

**Stephen** noted that multiple NICs share the same first N CPUs which
matters when you have more CPUs than queues on a NIC (like em
interfaces with 2 queues).  Solution would be to have a kind of
round-robin assignment.

Related, in some cases you may want tx and rx queues on different CPUs
rather than in pairs bound to the same CPU.

**John** suggests having some policy knobs to control these like
global tunables or perhaps per-device hints.

## Open Reviews

**Stephen:** Are there any open reviews we want to talk about?

**Patrick** notes a couple of bugs in the vmx driver.  One of them
isn't iflib related but due to running under an old version of ESXi.
Another issue has to do with number of descriptors(?), but not clear
the reporter is setting the sysctls correctly.

**John** attempted to create a search query in phabricator to list all
open iflib reviews, but phabricator failed to cooperate.
