# Attendees

- Olivier Cochard
- Drew Gallatin
- Eric Joyner
- Jacob Keller
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## Removing `mp_ring`

**Drew**: Olivier tested Stephen's modified patch and it was much
better than the existing `mp_ring` approach.  I also tested it on my
own test rig and it is now comparable to the Mellanox driver.

## Reviews

- D22071

  `ether_ifdetach` and vlan eventhandler events moved before device
  driver stop.

- D22086

  Stop interface while adjusting VLAN hardware filters.

- D21944

  Needs a way to ensure the parent PCI bridge decodes the bus number
  of new VFs.  John suggests a new `PCIB_DECODES_BUS` or some such.
  `sys/dev/pci/pci_pci.c` can check it's bus resource for `NEW_PCIB`
  and the registers for `!NEW_PCIB`.  Host-PCI bridge drivers like
  `sys/dev/acpica/acpi_pcib_acpi.c` will only work in the `NEW_PCIB`
  case.  Other host-pci bridge drivers to try to fix include
  `sys/x86/x86/mptable_pci.c` and possibly `sys/x86/pci/pci_bus.c`.
  
  There are various non-x86 Host-PCI bridge drivers that need updating
  for `PCI_RES_BUS` and `NEW_PCIB` and would need to add that new
  method as part of that in the future.
  
## Multicast addr KPI changes

HEAD changed to use an iterator with a callback for multicast
addresses, but the resulting code is now less efficient.  In
particular, the firmware wants to get individual requests to add and
remove addresses.

**Jacob** asks if we can fix the ioctl to the driver to add and remove
individual addresses.

**John** tried this in the past but there are races because the
multicast code has to drop locks before invoking the interface ioctl
handler.

**John** suggests two possible approaches for drivers to deal with
this:

1. At the start of the ioctl handler, enable equivalent of
   `IFF_ALLMULTI`, clear the table, then invoke the iterator adding each
   address.  This means rewriting the entire table on each invocation.

2. Create a shadow linked-list of multicast addresses in the software
   state for the driver.  Add some kind of tri-state "mark" flag for
   each address entry in the linked-list with the states `REMOVE`,
   `KEEP`, and `ADD`.

   - At the start of the ioctl, walk the linked-list setting all the
     mark flags to `REMOVE`.
   - Invoke the iterator.  The iterator callback walks the linked-list
     to find an existing entry.  If one is found it is marked `KEEP`.
     If one is not found, a new entry is added marked `ADD`.
   - After the iterator completes, walk the linked-list of addresses
     removing addresses marked `REMOVE` and adding addresses marked
     `ADD`.

   Note that all of these steps have to be serialized (probably with
   an sx lock) to prevent races with concurrent ioctls.
