# Attendees

- Drew Gallatin
- Patrick Kelsey
- Stephen Hurd
- Eric Joyner
- Jacob Keller
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## Removing mp_ring from the transmit path

**Stephen:** I have a phabricator review
([D21122](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D21122)) that removes `mp_ring`
from the transmit side and wanted some feedback on it before going
further.

I got some rediculously promising results with it, so wanted someone
else to dampen my results a bit.

**Drew:** That's usually Ollivier but he isn't here today.

**Jacob:** What were the results?

**Stephen:** With this change, I got 20% better UDP performance than
with tx_abidcate.  This change still has a lot of disabled bits left
in still as well.

**Jacob:** Was this on em(4)?

**Stephen:** ix(4)

**Jacob:** I can test on some other cards.

**Drew:** Did you try any multi-threaded tests?

**Stephen:** I used 8 parallel transmitters in a test where
tx_abdicate shines, but I'm not sure my testing is flawless.  I'm
looking for some cases where this change hurts instead of helps.

As long as this is not a performance regression, it's a win to have a
simpler transmit path even if it's not a large performance win.

**Patrick:** You didn't try a routing configuration in your testing?

**Stephen:** I did not.

**Stephen:** So is Ollivier gone for two weeks?

**Drew:** I'll check the calendar.  He is off until August 9th.

## Interrupt assignment

**Jacob:** There was also a thread about interrupt assignment to CPUs.

**Patrick:** The current code seems baroque, and overly complex.

*Various discussion about how weird this code is.*

**Jacob:** I think we should enumerate what behaviors we want and
rewrite it to provide just those instead of trying to modify what is
there.

**Patrick:** I agree.  I think there's only a short list of requirements.

**Jacob:** It might be nice to have a way to deal with additional
queues that aren't really admin queues.

**John:** Some devices might need different classes of queues,
e.g. TOE and crypto queues for the Chelsio NIC.  These aren't just
extra vectors like admin qeueus but parallel sets that want similar
CPU binding as happens with TX and RX queues.

**Jacob:** Right now we set a flag to disabe iflib's allocation but
then have to duplicate that work in our driver, and we can't get to
all of the tunables and settings are some of them are private to the
iflib context.

*More discussion*

**Patrick:** So it sounds like we want two things:
1. A way to allocate additional vectors that the driver can configure
   its own handlers for.
2. A way to export iflib's calculated mapping of queues to CPUs so
   that the driver can reuse the same mapping for other sets of queues
   if desired.

**Stephen:** There's also the question of if we wanted to permit RX
and TX as separate threads on the same core.

**Patrick:** Weren't you the only one who wanted this before?  I've
never heard anyone else advocate for this.

**Stephen:** I used to be a believer but in my testing I got better
performance by sticking RX and TX on separate cores.

**Patrick:** It's not a lot of extra code around to keep it.

**Stephen:** Do we know what parameters we need?

**Patrick:** I think `core_offset` and sharing RX and TX or not are
all the knobs we really need.

*Lots more discussion*

## Marius' bug ([239118](https://bugs.freebsd.org/239118))

**Patrick:** Marius has a fix merged back to 12 that breaks vmx(4).
It only affects legacy interrupts, not MSI-X.  He changed the legacy
case to all the combined tx/rx handlers.  `iflib_legacy_setup` used to
call `iflib_fast_intr_ctx` but now it calls `iflib_fast_intr_rxtx`.
This breaks drivers that don't use TX interrupts, or if you are using
TX abdicate.  In particular, drivers without transmit interrupt
handlers can assume that tx completion code is not reentrant.  We
should only use `fast_intr_rxtx` if the driver has indicated support
for hardware tx interrupts.

## Jacob Reviews

- [D21005](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D21005)

**John:** Jacob, you should replace the vlan eventhandler's with new
`struct ifnet` methods to fully address the race with those
eventhandlers.  Using eventhandlers for that is an old hack.  They
should have always been ifp methods.

**Patrick:** I have a Q-in-Q patch and will need more VLAN-related
handler changes
