# Attendees

- Drew Gallatin
- Stephen Hurd
- Eric Joyner
- Jacob Keller
- Patrick Kelsey
- Qing Li
- Warner Losh
- Marius Strobl
- Bjoern Zeeb
- John Baldwin

# Notes

**John Baldwin:** I'm mainly here to facilitate and haven't worked on
iflib myself.

**Drew Gallatin:** At Netflix.  We co-sponsored the original iflib
work and I'm working on simplifying it.  We use it with 10G Intel
NICs.  Hacking on it now with glebius@ to support driver-level packet
filtering.

**Stephen Hurd:** At Limelight.  We want to use iflib everywhere in
all of our drivers.  We have some vendor knobs we use and would like
to only put them in one place.  I've been fightiny a lot of fires
recently rather than working on iflib.

**Patrick Kelsey:** Most of my focus on iflib in the past few months
has been from a customer I have deploying a product on 12-stable on
Intel networking with ATLQ and VMs.  I've been working on the
[vmx(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=vmx&sektion=4) driver and it's
iflib conversion.  The
[hn(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=hn&sektion=4) driver (Hyper-V)
may also be converted in the future.  There may also be some interest
in a parallel (multiq) ALTQ discipline.  Would be nice to do that in
iflib itself rather than in N drivers.

We also really need a how-to-write an iflib driver doc.  The manpages
don't quite get you there.

**Jacob Keller:** I work at Intel and am working on an iflib driver
for upcoming 100G hardware.  Also been working on trying to figure out
how it works, so I've also been thinking about docs.

**Eric Joyner:** I work on Intel drivers.  Worked on converting ixl(4)
to iflib.  Also working with Jacob on his driver.

**John** to Patrick: Which Intel drivers does your customers care
about?

**Patrick:** [em(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=em&sektion=4),
[igb(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=igb&sektion=4),
[ixgbe(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=ixgbe&sektion=4) and
[ixl(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=ixl&sektion=4)

**Bjoern Zeeb:** I'm interested in seeing if iflib will spread to more
device drivers, ioctls and possible future protocol offloads that go
through it.  Also wonder if it will ever apply to 802.11.  Mostly just
listening.

**Qing Li:** I work at Symantec.  We use a lot of 10G drivers at our
work.  iflib is interesting for us becuase we'd like to leverage a
common framework.

**Warner Losh:** I'm lurking at the moment.

**Marius Strobl:** regarding iflib, I've mainly worked on getting
performance and stability of the Intel 1 GbE drivers back to where it
was with 11 for my own private needs.

One question from Marius is continued access to BSD licensed common
code for Intel 1G drivers.  Intel will still add new device IDs for 1G
and provide updates to the common code.  There is a port for the
non-iflib driver for 1G and Intel will merge new device IDs to it, but
not any iflib-specific fixes back to the non-iflib bits.

**John:** What do we think about whether or not we should convert
existing drivers that aren't multiq?

**Jake:** It's certainly easier to write a new driver using iflib
since there's less code.

**Stephen:** I'm not eager to spend a lot of time converting older
drivers.

**Stephen:** I'm interested in doing a new iflib
[bge(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=bge&sektion=4) driver for newer
chips, but the old driver would have to stay around for older chips.

Question about whether or not iflib should be mandatory (e.g. does
that enable new features more easily?).  Consensus is not right now
even for new drivers.

Some discussion about Chelsio and Mellanox not using iflib.  Drew
would like to see both drivers converted.  Stephen would as well.

**Stephen:** Would like common interface for additional settings like
flow control, something ethtool-like perhaps (at least in being a
common interface rather than bespoke sysctls in drivers).

**Jake:** This will let us remove more duplicated code from drivers by
just having callbacks to do the hardware-specific changes.

**Drew:** What are people's views on performance with iflib right now?

**Stephen:** It seems ok, but not great.

**Drew:** In my experience it sucks for small packets.  For our
workload (web server), it's on par with Chelsio and Mellanox.  I'd
like to revisit some of the assumptions Matt made when he was writing
it to see if they still hold.  When reading the code it is not trivial
to get all the context.

**Stephen:** Some of the naming is obtuse, everything is a
"descriptor".

**Patrick:** I think there are things in iflib that are left over from
approaches that iflib ended up not taking.  Some of those things we
might able to remove to simplify.

**Drew:** I tried to look at it over Christmas Break to see why it was
bad for small packets and couldn't find a smoking gun.  Too much
complexity.  Without abdicate, it's 1/3 of the performance of Chelsio
and Mellanox for forwarding.

**Stephen:** Is forwarding the main use case for small packets?  It
seems to be the easiest to test/benchmark.

**Drew:** Netflix doesn't care about forwarding, but DDOS protection.
However, forwarding is a good test for both.

**Jake:** I have a couple of reviews I'd like to bring up: 

- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D19468 - possible infinite loop when defragging
- https://reviews.freebsd.org/D19489 - centralize computing rx buffer size.

  This came out of the discussion when removing `CONTIGMALLOC_WORKS`
  (which everyone agrees with).  Would make bringing
  `CONTIGMALLOC_WORKS` back more feasible.

  For at least one other iflib driver
  ([bnxt(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=bnxt&sektion=4)) Jake
  couldn't find where the driver sets the size of the rx frame.
  Stephen thinks it does use the buffer size in the receive code; in
  the refill callback.  Intel hardware needs this setup for the entire
  ring, bnxt(4) can set it for each buffer.  Drew thinks most drivers
  are similar to the Intel setup.
  
(John is lost looking at the code in D19468)

**Stephen:** Dubious that the prefetches aimed at small packet
forwarding are helpful vs hurtful.  They are also done in three
different ways.

**Marius:** yeah, the prefetches should go.

**Drew:** I hope to have a patch for PFIL_FILTER by the end of the
week.

**Stephen:** Do we have anyone on the call who cares about
[netmap(4)](https://man.freebsd.org/query=netmap&sektion=4)?

Drew and Jacob use it for testing, but no one on the call seems to be
in the "cares" camp.

**Marius:** Speaking of reviews in general; I had some hard time in
getting changes to iflib and converted drivers reviewed so far; who is
actually interested in and willing to review changes to iflib and
converted drivers (which one)?

**John:** Who reviews changes to iflib?  Is there a group or do patch
submitters just pick individuals on an ad-hoc basis?  What do people
think of having an `#iflib` group on phabricator?

General agreement.

**Stephen** brings up Herald rules.  Question on Herald rules for core
iflib vs iflib + drivers.  Consensus is to do core iflib only.

**John:** I will poke phabric-admin@ for the group and rules.
`sys/net/iflib*` is the set of paths.

**Marius:** `sys/net/mp_ring*` and `sys/net/ifdi_if.m` are also relevant.

**John:** We will meet again in two weeks.
