# Attendees

- Drew Gallatin
- Eric Joyner
- Stephen Hurd
- Jacob Keller
- Marius Strobl
- Olivier Cochard-Labbé
- Cy Schubert
- Jeb Cramer
- Kevin Bowling

# Notes

Question about how approval should work in Phabricator in conjunction
with the `#iflib` group.  Specifically, who can approve "as the group"
vs as an individual.

**John Baldwin:** In general I mostly consider phabricator groups as a
way of people expressing what things they are interested in reviewing
more than as a token of authority, so I'm hoping we can avoid a very
detailed rule.

**Stephen Hurd:** How about people can approve as both themselves and
#iflib if they are confident the change is ok, and if they are less
confident, just approve as an individual.

**Jacob Keller:** Is there anything iflib related we want to MFC to
stable/11 for 11.3?  I looked and didn't see anything, but I know we
at Intel want the request reset function (or reinit).

**John:** I thought iflib was only in 12.0 and later?

**Jacob:** We have a newer driver that uses iflib that we want to
eventually merge to 11.

**Stephen:** The framework is in 11, and bxnt(4) uses iflib in 11, but
no other drivers use it.

Some discussion about if we should preserve the ABI in 11 or if iflib
is too experimental.

Consensus is to still preserve the ABI in 11, but ok to MFC changes as
long as ABI is preserved.  Also, consensus is not to merge any iflib
driver conversions to 11.

**Jacob:** I think the only thing I need/want to MFC is the request
reset change.

**John** suggests uploading the MFC patch to phabricator so we can
collectively help review for ABI changes.

**Stephen** brings up the review in phab about random MAC addresses
and whether or not `#iflib` is blocking.  **John** thinks `#iflib`
shouldn't really be considered as blocking even if phabricator's UI
lists it that way.

**Jacob:** A performance regresssion(?) for a TCP workload when TSO is
enabled.

**Drew:** Are you seeing TCP retransmits or bad checksums or other
errors?  I would compare the counters across two runs (one with TSO on
and one with it off) to see if anything jumps out.

**Jacob:** I see the same behavior with both old and new iflib.

**Drew:** Do you see the same behavior with igb or ixl?

**Jacob:** No, we only see this on the 40G NIC.

**Drew:** One stream or multiple streams?

**Jacob:** Multiple streams.  We do get line rate and a lot more CPU
usage on a pre-12.0 kernel.  On a more recent kernel, we see the same
CPU usage, but not line rate.

**Stephen:** It might be worth checking on the fast kernel if TSO is
actually being enabled or not via a debug counter.  Line rate with TSO
off sounds unlikely, so the old kernel might have just been failing to
disable TSO.

**John:** I'm surprised there isn't a MAC counter already for a TSO
packet vs non-TSO packets.

**Jacob:** I can't get the RACK TCP stack to work.

**Stephen:** Do you have the rack.ko?

**Jacob:** When I try to kldload it, it doesn't find it, so no.  I
have `EXTRA_TCP_STACKS` in `makeoptions`, so not sure why.

*More discussion about sysctls to set, etc. to use RACK.*

**Stephen:** Next meeting I will have more to talk about.  Drew, did
you do any work on getting rid of `mp_ring`s?

**Drew:** Matt forked `mp_ring` from the Chelsio driver into iflib.  I
was looking at small packet performance, and we were talking about
using abdicate as a workaround.  I wanted to try just cutting out
`mp_ring` and doing something simple to see if that helps or not.
However, Netflix doesn't care about this workload, so it's going to be
a holiday project.  However, one thing Netflix does care about is
using Hans' LRO in iflib which Chelsio and Mellanox both already use.

**Stephen:** Adopting Hans' LRO for iflib is on my todo list, too.
