# Attendees

- Olivier Cochard
- Drew Gallatin
- Stephen Hurd
- Eric Joyner
- Jacob Keller
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## ng_nat(4) and em(4)

**Stephen:** So I've done nothing on iflib, but did get an internal
report from Steve Wills about ng_nat(4) and em(4).

**Eric:** I've seen that as well.  I have some basic information, but
I don't know more.

**Stephen:** A bunch of watchdog timeouts and it craps out.  I told
him to get a real NIC.  The bug report has two different models of
em(4): one (I218-V (2)) never recovers, the other (82574L) recovers if
you remove the netgraph node.

**Eric:** These both appear to be onboard devices on either desktop or
laptop.

## Reviews

**Jacob:** The deregister cleanup
[D21005](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D21005).

Part of this patch was merged previously in
[r350507](https://svnweb.freebsd.org/base?view=revision&revision=350507).

## VFs in a new Intel driver

**Eric:** I'm working on adding VF support and my device changes the
maximum number of MSI-X vectors for the VFs based on some
configuration of the VFs after SRIOV is enabled.  However, FreeBSD's
PCI bus sees the VF and caches the MSI-X capabilities of the VF that
are later changed by the PF drive when completeing the initialization
of the VF.

*Various discussion betwen Eric, Jacob, and John*

**John:** I think we need to make sure there is a suitable callback to
let the PF driver finish initializing the VF before the VF is probed
by the host PCI bus.

## Removing `mp_ring` patch [D21122](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D21122)

**Jacob:** I'd like to say that I looked at this review, but I
haven't.

**Stephen:** What we really need is to just to verify that there
aren't any regressions.

**John:** Navdeep may be able to point you at a workload to look at
that might be relevant for `mp_ring`.
