# 20241213 srcmgr meeting

Attendees: markj, emaste, imp, jhb

- Going to skip the next call due to overlap with Christmas
- Discussed licensing issues in the Linux i915 driver
  - Most of the driver is permissively licensed but a few files were
    mechanically tagged as GPLv2-only.
  - amdgpu and nouveau are consistently MIT-licensed.
  - Ed is trying to get upstream to relicense i915 files.
    - https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/drm/i915/kernel/-/issues/13330
    - https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/drm/xe/kernel/-/issues/3852
- We had a src bugzilla triage session on December 6th
  - About 15 people present in total, met for three hours, focused on new src bugs.
  - Discussed how to make it a bit better next time.
  - Host should provide more context somehow (e.g., current bug number) so that folks
    tuning in and out can quickly see where we are.
  - Different sessions could focus on backlogged bugs vs. new ones.
  - We feel it's very important to ensure that new bugs get triaged quickly,
    backlogged bugs are, well, backlogged, and generally have less value.
  - It's still important to comb through the backlog, but it's harder to do as
    a group.
  - Could have alternating sessions for new bugs and old.
  - Mark Linimon suggests working with contributors on Discord.
- Warner has been working on a jemalloc import.
  - Quite complex due to quirks of previous imports.
  - He is trying to stage things so that it's possible to script next time.
- i386 and 32-bit powerpc removal
  - Should core@ drive this, since ports and docs are involved as well?
  - John will mail core@.
