# 20241004 srcmgr meeting

Attendees: markj, jhb, emaste, imp

Agenda:
- Need to write an announcement to developers@.
  - Discussed what will be in it, who will draft it (markj).
  - imp will work on getting the srcmgr charter published somewhere linkable.

- 0mp (Mateusz Piotrowski) has asked for src commit access to facilitate work on the rc(8) framework.
  - He wants to help land contributor rc patches which are languishing, and add test cases.
  - A number of existing patches are on phabricator.
  - markj to mentor.
  - Yes: emaste, jhb, imp, markj

- trasz (Edward Tomasz Napierała) has some patches in phabricator and would like his commit access restored.
  - jhb will get his account restored.

- kibab (Ilya Bakulin) would like cluster access restored so that he can help with the GCP release process.
  - We don't have much process for contributors with cluster accounts but no commit bits.  How do they get expired?
  - markj to email core about this.
  - markj to follow up with accounts@ to get Ilya's cluster account set up.

- Some discussion of how to approach the bugzilla src backlog.
  - Mark Linimon has been doing a lot of work lately to go through select categories of stale bugzilla issues and close them when appropriate.
  - We need to have regular sessions where a group of developers go through batches of PRs and try to make progress on those that can't be closed.
  - We want to err on the side of caution when closing stale PRs; e.g., a panic reported 10 years ago with no reproducer or follow-up is not useful, but bugs with reproducers should be investigated more thoroughly.
  - It would be useful to measure issues by how long it has been since the last comment.
    - The FF is coordinating some work to get more analytics on the src bugzilla backlog.
    - Some mechanical, blanket bugzilla comments confuse this, but they can be manually filtered.

- Spent some time going through open Github PRs, starting with the older ones.
