# 20241019 srcmgr meeting

Attendees: markj, jhb, emaste, imp

Agenda:
- Start fleshing out a lurkers program.
  - What is our goal?
    - Recruit new srcmgr members (eventually).
    - Get people involved in proactive triage of bugzilla/github/phab.
    - Get people working on development tools with guidance from srcmgr.
  - What are the prerequisites?
    - A src commit bit for srcmgr membership, but not for helping with triage/tools.
    - Some track record of contributions to src.
    - Some track record of contributions that aren't just commits: code reviews, bugzilla, github, MLs, forums, ...
  - Before the end of the year, we want to start having regular triage calls with interested lurkers.
    - We would like to stream these calls.
    - Zoom seems like the best platform for this, FF may be able to sponsor.
    - Want to keep the scope relatively small initially.
    - Need a pre-determined list of issues to triage, we don't want to spend the call deciding what to focus on.
    - Need a moderator to guide discussion and move things forward.
    - Need some kind of policy for how to conduct bug triage (see item below).

- Bug triage policy.
  - We want some policy document which outlines how we approach bug triage, so that lurkers have something to refer to.
  - Include guidelines on how to triage new bugs vs. old backlog issues.
  - Provide a state machine for common cases and guidance on how to handle tricky cases.
    - e.g., what to do about [bugzilla PR 282115](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=282115)?  If there is no follow up in a month or two, it should just be closed.
    - There is nothing preventing users from re-opening bugs or commenting on closed bugs.
    - How do we decide whether a bug is actionable?
  - Feature requests are a bit tricky.  Bugzilla is not really the right place, but we don't have anything better.
  - We should get guidance from Mark Linimon.
  - markj will draft this before the next call

- asciidoc conversion of the charter.
  - Warner is still working on it.

- Commit bit vote timeouts
  - We don't have a policy for this, but we should.
  - Ideally, srcmgr members will let the group know if they'll be away for more than a few days.
  - A timeout of a week is reasonable for the rare exception.
  - Need to draft a policy (markj I think?) and link to it from the srcmgr charter.

- src commit bit for Kajetan Staszkiewicz
  - He has been contributing to pf for a while.
  - kp@ to mentor.
  - Yes: emaste, jhb, imp, markj

- src commit bit for Kevin Bowling (kbowling)
  - He has a ports bit and has been improving various NIC drivers for a while.
  - We thought he had a src bit already.
  - Kevin and us agree that there's no need for a mentor, he can ask questions as needed.
  - Yes: emaste, jhb, imp, markj

- Warner asks, what is our policy for releasing an EN?
  - We don't have a well-documented policy.
  - secteam will release them if:
    - someone has filled out the template,
    - the patch isn't too risky or complex,
    - the problem being solved is hard to work around.
  - The EN process is quite cumbersome, an artifact of using freebsd-update as the deliver mechanism.
  - We would probably release more low-risk ENs if the process were easier.
  - Life will be easier post-pkgbase (we can more easily respin install media).
  - No real actions to take here, but we discussed some of the ongoing work to make a pkgbase-aware installer.
