# 20250627 srcmgr meeting

Attendees: markj, jfree, bnovkov, kevans, des, imp, olce

- Last meeting was skipped due to BSDCan
  - We gave a talk at the devsummit and recruited lurkers
- Granted a commit bit to ShengYi Hung (aokblast)
  - lwhsu and markj to mentor
- First meeting with lurkers!
  - Everyone introduced themselves and briefly talked about what they were
    interested in working on
  - Bojan wants to:
    - maintain a running list of technical goals for the project, must-haves, critical features, etc.
    - improve lists of project ideas for new contributors
      - we should actively maintain https://wiki.freebsd.org/IdeasPage
      - some of the projects are "interesting" but not necessarily practical or broadly useful
      - pie-in-the-sky ideas are ok, but should be clearly marked as such
    - introduce some continuous performance testing framework
      - we should start simple, use tests like timing builds, will-it-scale
      - collect data over time, send out regular reports
    - improve on-boarding for new contributors
  - Kyle wants to:
    - improve ingest of new patches from the community
      - patches are fragmented across phab, bugzilla, github
      - we are not consistent about landing them
    - improve test suite efficiency
      - how do we figure out which tests to run for a given patch?
      - (maybe we don't and just try to make the whole test suite faster?)
  - Olivier wants to:
    - improve the MFC process
      - want to tag commits after the fact with a do-not-MFC note
      - we should start using git notes to add general commit metadata
    - find better ways to handle large patch stacks
      - it's hard to handle review comments on them, lots of conflicts etc.
  - Jake wants to:
    - find ways to improve review tooling: maintaining large stacks of patches in phab is a pain
    - see if we can help import drm-kmod into the base system
  - Dag-Erling wants to:
    - see the way that we use git improve
      - we are not really taking advantage of it relative to svn
- Dag-Erling points out that our matrix instance is flagged as experimental
  - We really need to decide whether are going to adopt it or not
  - matrix accounts are tied to the "experiental" instance
  - We should mail core and see what their plans are
    - markj is supposed to do this
- We should mail bapt and find out the status of his forgejo experiments
  - markj is supposed to do this
- Spent a lot of time discussing git notes and how we can use them
  - olce will write a proposal for how we can use them to tag commits with several types of metadata (MFC info, "fixes", etc.)
