# Attendees

- Ihor Antonov <ihor@antonovs.family>
- Mina Galić <freebsd@igalic.co>

# Agenda

- Review group readme
- Define group meeting schedule → Bi-weekly
- Daemon improvements - short term plan
- RC discussion
- …

# Notes

## TOOLS

notes: https://scratchpad.pkgbase.live/
meeting: https://meet.kde.org/b/iho-3ko-ud0

## Minutes

Looked at https://reviews.freebsd.org/D7474 and approach is not ideal. Better to do generic solution with `rc.subr` `${name}_supervise` or `${name}_autorestart_`


TODO: include motivation for rc improvements. (from igalic website somewhere)


## Problems with RC

Service dependency management is very brittle. Requires modifying rc scripts.
No easy way to override default changes in a way that does not conflict with base.
Dependency ordering is done by magic comments + `rcorder`, this approach presents no API
to control this other than just editing files directly.

RC is not parallel. An attempt to add parallelism was made a year ago and was reverted quickly.

Desired Properties for RC replacement/successor:
- parallelism by default
- supervision by default
- introspection / debugging (aka systemd analyze blame or similar)
- 1:many

Where to start with RC replacement/evolution:
- Have rc start our new thing
- new thing takes over rc scripts by bit
- start with base system (and our favorite ports)
- eventually, we switch: that is: we start rc
- extend `service` tool to manage both old rc managed services and new
- modify old rc.d/ script? (igalic: confusing for the end user. better idea: modify rc script to do nothing but emit warning message to use `service`)


How does the "new thing" handle process tracking?
Login classes are very good candidate.

Can login classes be created on the fly? `{set|get}logincalss` syscalls suggest that. More experimentation is required.
Login classes do not have hierarchy
It is possible to track a tree of processes via kqueue `EVFILT_PROC` + `NOTE_TRACK`


### Planned Daemon Improvements

- General code quiality improvement & cleanup
- procctl `PROC_REAP_ACQUIRE`
- procctl `PROC_NO_NEW_PRIVS_CTL`
- kqueue instead of signals
-  [Bug #268580: Add shutdown delay to daemon(8)](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=268580)
-  [Bug #236117: /usr/sbin/daemon should support stdin,stdout,stderr redirect to files other than /dev/null](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=236117)
-  [Bug #254511: daemon(8): Allow to set daemonized process realtime or idletime scheduling priority](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=254511)
-  [Bug #212829: daemon(8) using -P swallows signals such as SIGHUP instead of propagating them](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=212829)


### Improving Login Class for our Use-case

Add hierarchy (parent-child):
- extend struct loginclass by parent parameter
- extend libc and kernel side's (sys_)setloginclass by parent parameter
- in libc: Make function VAR_ARG to not break API
- Find out whether this would still break ABI
- allow sub-classing classes
- allow subclassing without root privilege (default->me->some_service)

note that the initial conception of rctl, which gave birth to login classes had a vision of [Hierarchical Resource Limits](https://wiki.freebsd.org/Hierarchical_Resource_Limits).
We are interpreting this to mean that login classes could be hierarchical, too.
Class, in many OOP senses also implies hierarchies.
