# Attendees

- Alexandru Elisei
- Patrick Mooney
- Marcelo Araujo
- Bryan Cantrill
- Ben Widawsky
- Darius Mihai
- Sergiu Weisz
- Elena Mihailescu
- Michael Dexter
- John Baldwin

# Notes

**John Baldwin:** Primary interest in bhyve is as a development tool
and my work in the past has been focused on that.  Current project is
a GDB stub to permit debugging guests directly.

**Alexandru Elisei:** Working on bhyve for arm64 for my thesis.  It is
functional under an emulator.  Working to get it working on real
hardware (machiattobin?).  Currently looking at ways to work on
separating machine independent code from machine dependent code.  Want
to focus on getting the arm64 work upstreamed.  Is based on earlier
armv7 work.

**John** asks about armv8 modes the arm64 work is using.

**Alexandru:** armv8.1 introduced a new mode that saves and restores
the ring 0 state directly ala VT-x.  The current work uses the model
from armv8.0 which requires bounces up into ring -1 and explicitly
saving and restoring alternate ring 0 states.  Folks from arm have
recommended adopting the armv8.1 mode as it is simpler to implement
and more efficient.

**Patrick Mooney:** Software engineer at Joyent working on bhyve and
integrating it into Smartos to stabilize it and get it production
ready on amd64.

**Marcelo Araujo:** Been working on and off on bhyve since 2014.
Recent work includes virtio-scsi and PCI NVMe.  More recently working
on work from a GSOC student to help polish it and get it upstreamed.
I have some work on migration(?) but waiting for a Capsicum patch to
land in head.  Also have some work on configuration (libucl?).
Started on a patch after talking with Allan Jude
(allanjude@FreeBSD.org) about libucl.  Working for iXsystems now.
Working on a library to teach bhyve how to work with more disk formats
such as QCOW rather than just raw disk images.  Also working on
cleanup such as fixing issues reported in Coverity.  Have an interest
in libvirt.  Also want to split up bhyvectl into different tools.
Worked on UEFI SDK to add support for virtio-scsi and NVMe.
Interested in getting our SDK updated from 2014 to 2018.

**John:** Is someone else interested in updating the SDK from 2014 to
2018?

**Marcelo:** Yes, Rebecca Cran wants to work on updating the SDK from
2014 to 2018.  I talked with her, but she has only gotten started and
isn't far along the path.  However, she knows a lot about UEFI SDK and
its toolkit.

***not sure:*** Is she currently with Microsoft?

**Marcelo:** I'm not sure, she used to work for Microsoft, not sure if
she does currently.

**Bryan Cantrill:** CTO of Joyent and I work with Patrick.  Working on
getting bhyve working on SmartOS in our cloud environment.  We are
trying to replace kvm+qemu with bhyve for our hardware virtualization.
We want to avoid redoing mistakes from kvm.  Mostly Linux guests (90%)
and Windows guests (10%) and maybe some other weirder guests (e.g.
Windows 98).  All of our work is open source and would like to get
things upstreamead.  Personally I've been helping Patrick debug
things.

**John:** Are you interested in older device models to support Windows
98?

**Bryan:** Our interest is nascent in Windows 98.  e1000 seems to be
good enough for most systems as a NIC.

*some discussion about storage and if we might need a simpler model
than our current AHCI like some Intel ICH ATA*

**Michael Dexter** to John: What is your goal for older systems?

**John:** I think it might be nice to boot FreeBSD 4.x, but this is
very low on my priority list.

**Alexandru:** What were the problems you ran into with qemu?

**Bryan:** QEMU is just trying to emulate a wide range of systems and
its goals don't align with what we want to do.  They seem to be hasty
and happy to add a lot of code and not really server focused.  There
is also a strange rift between QEMU and KVM.  QEMU has a lot of
complexity and so we stayed on an older version, until GPGPU pass
through forced us to re-evaluate.

**Ben Widawsky:** From Intel.  My role is as a tech lead for FreeBSD
stuff at Intel other than networking.  My manager is trying to collect
an determine the level of interest for various Intel technologies in
the FreeBSD ecosystem.  For this call trying to gauge what the
interest is in bhyve and if Intel should steer some effort towards
bhyve.

**John:** what would help you answer your questions?

**Ben:** Knowing Joyent is interested is good.  Getting some sense of
deployment numbers would be good.  I assume that if Intel is
dedicating resources to work on KVM that it would also be beneficial
to have resources on bhyve.

**John:** Only thing I can think of off the top of my head that
resources might help with is nested virtualization.  That hasn't been
worked on to date because it is a lot of work.  Also, the only real
use case seems to be debugging bhyve from within bhyve rather than any
production use case.

**Patrick:** Actually, the lack of nested virt is one of the nice
things about the bhyve code base as nested virt added a lot of
complexity to KVM.

**John:** Do we know if KVM started on that before shadow VMCSs were
available?

*some back and forth*

**Bryan:** KVM's initial work does predate shadow VMCSs, so it may be
that it wouldn't be as bad if you require hardware assist.

**John:** I think if we do nested virt we should require hardware
assist.  That is inline with bhyve's character.

**Patrick:** Yes, requiring nested page tables for example made things
simpler.  However, there is no notion of shadow EPT as far as I'm
aware, and having to explicitly deal with shadow EPTs is what added
the most complexity in KVM.

**John:** Ah.  Yes, not having hardware assist for shadow EPT would
seem to require a lot of complexity to handle nested virtualization.
      
**Darius Mihai:** Here with Elena and Sergiu working on suspend and
resume for bhyve.  Elena is working on live migration while Darius and
Sergiu are working on improving suspend and resume.  Currently working
on suspend and resume of Windows, but it doesn't appear to fully work.
The graphics interface doesn't restore so you can't see any output.
Mouse and keyboard input appear to work, but it's hard to see without
working graphics output.  Also seeing an issue with timers after
resume because the timer appeared to go backwards.

**John:** Are the issues with Windows something you see with suspend
and resume or migration?

**Darius:** Just suspend and resume, though migration is just a
special case of suspend and resume with sending data over the socket.

**Elena:** We are working right now trying to send memory in rounds
instead of one round.

*various discussion about how to do COW to support live migration,
John is overdue on replying to an earlier mail from Elena and needs to
write down some thoughts*

**Bryan:** In regards to live migration, Bryan noted that bhyve's
intimacy with FreeBSD's VM was the biggest pain point for Joyent
porting.  Currently bhyve on SmartOS just wires memory and then
provides a fake vm_page layer on top of the wired memory.  Bryan would
like to minimize future entanglement with FreeBSD VM details if
possible.

**Marcelo:** Even without live migration, suspend a "slow migration"
followed by remote resume can be close enough in some cases.  The VPS
work Bjoern Zeeb (bz@FreeBSD.org) is working on which does migration
of jails between systems uses this type of model instead of live
migration.

**John:** I think we should certainly aim to keep suspend and resume
as portable as possible.  Live migration might require some platform
specific bits however.

**Bryan** asked about the cadence of meetings.

**John:** Let's try doing a call every two weeks.  For now let's use
the same time slot (9AM Pacific every other Thursday for 1 hour).

**Michael Dexter:** Most of intro was in my e-mail I sent earlier.  My
number one long term goal is to continue having conversations like
this going forward.  Would like to have a North America bhyvecon but
am looking for some sponsors.  Also interested if we need any
additional mailing lists.

**Marcelo Araujo:** Would like to figure out how to better cooperate
between Joyent and FreeBSD.  Joyent has made several good changes, and
I would like to figure out an easier path for merging things upstream.

**Michael:** I think OpenZFS has been a great example.

**Bryan:** We have similar goals.  Let's make this the focus of the
discussion for the next call in two weeks.
