# Attendees

- Alexandru Elisei
- Patrick Mooney
- Rod Grimes
- Darius Mihai
- Sergiu Weisz
- Elena Mihailescu
- Michael Dexter
- John Baldwin

# Notes

**John Baldwin:** Question about CLFLUSH.

**Rod Grimes:** FreeBSD 12 between Alpha 6 and Alpha 7 is now using
CLFLUSH on a MMIO region that it didn't use before, and this will
break running 12 guests on older FreeBSD hardware hosts.  kib's patch
should be committed, but it might be nice to revert the use of CLFLUSH
in 12 if we don't need it.  Otherwise we should push kib's patch as an
EN to 10.x and 11.x releases.

**John:** Patch for GDTR and IDTR limits has been tested and reviewed,
just needs to be committed.  Have a patch to restore LDTR after AMD-v
`#VMEXIT` that needs testing.  Will post it to get some testing.

**John:** Started a thread about managing COW for live migration
adding Alan Cox and Mark Johnston with a sketch of an idea for an API.
Hopefully this discussion will lead to a solution.  Asked Elena if the
idea in his e-mail about each mapping using its own, separate shadow
object explained the corruption she was seeing?

**Elena Mihailescu:** Confirmed the separate shadow objects for
different mappings was the source of the corruption.  Had a question
about the role of `shm_open(SHM_ANON)` in my example and how it could
be used.

**John:** `shm_open` is just a way to create a fd that can "name" a VM
object.  The new ioctl could work on any anonymous VM object.  I think
right now the existing VM object is associated with the /dev/vmm/*vm*
file such that mmaping that file maps guest RAM.  We could perhaps
make the ioctl work on this file as well instead of changing bhyve to
use `shm_open(SHM_ANON)` for the guest RAM backing store.  However, if
we implement the ioctl for `shm_open` fds it might make it easier to
write test cases of just the COW functionality without having to have
all of bhyve running to test the snapshot feature.

**Sergiu Weisz:** We have a problem with save/restore on Linux guests
with rdtsc.  After a restore, they do not see the correct wall time.
We see this even if we reboot the host.  FreeBSD guests appear to be
fine.  Does anyone have any ideas?

*lots of discussion about Linux getting unhappy with TSC jumping
around and FreeBSD guests seem to not care.  John's guess was that
Linux did not like seeing the TSC jump far ahead (normal restore) or
jump backwards (restore after host reboot).  John is surprised FreeBSD
doesn't blow up with the second one as well.  John wonders if maybe
kern.timecounter.hardware wasn't using the TSC?  Also mentioned the
TSC offset field in the VMCS which we could use to prevent the
backwards jump at least.*

**Patrick Mooney:** For KVM on illumos we had to implement PV-clock
for Linux guests to not reject the TSC.  I have some initial patches
for PV-clock on bhyve, but we have to fake the cpuid to look like KVM.

*John believes Patrick also said that Linux guests were not happy with
 HPET either under KVM and really wanted PV-clock.*

**John:** It sounds like adding PV-clock to bhyve might help Sergiu's
issue with Linux guests.

**Patrick:** We are running out of option letters, it would be nice to
move to some kind of parameter-based format for specifying tunables.
For example, it might be nice to start individual VMs with VT-x APIC
virtualization disabled for testing.

*some discussion of using a UCL format config file*

**Rod:** Wants to add an item about not being able to boot more than
16 cores.  There is a known cap on one of the MADT tables (maybe the
non-UEFI one for bhyveload) at 20 CPUs.  However, some recent
regression seems to have broken booting with even 18 CPUs.

**Patrick:** We are able to use 32 CPUs with UEFI.

**Patrick:** Right now the max cpus are statically defined.  We would
like to make the maxium a dynamic value per guest so that we can avoid
allocating large static allocations for VMs with small CPUs.

**Rod:** My cpu topology changes added a hidden 4th argument that sets
this, but not currently exposed to userland.

**Alexandru:** Working on KVM unit tests that are micro kernels.
Haven't booted them under bhyve/arm yet, but am looking at it.

**Michael Dexter:** Alistair from NetBSD reached out to say that they
are going to ship their own hypervisor.

http://m00nbsd.net/4e0798b7f2620c965d0dd9d6a7a2f296.html

**Alexandru:** Started discussion on MI vs MD split for vmmapi.h.
libvmmapi seems like the simplest place to start.

First approach was to use `#ifdef`s in a single, shared vmmapi.h.
Mihai discussed this with Peter Grehan previously and Peter was not a
fan.

Second approach was to keep MI functions in vmmapi.h and move MD
functions to *arch*/vmmapi_*arch*.h.

**John:** That approach sounds reasonable.  I would suggest having
vmmapi.h auto `#include` the right MD header so that we can have MI
names with MD values, etc.  Also, please post a branch on github so we
can iterate via comments, etc. on the actual split of MI vs MD.

---

On the topic of CLFLUSH in FreeBSD 12,
https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=232081 is the
original bug report and includes a patch from kib@ to fix 12 to stop
issuing CLFLUSH when running under a hypervisor.

For our next call we'd like to talk about the format we might adopt
for a UCL config file.  Specifically, it might be good to sketch out
some top-level hierarchies and examples.
