# Attendees

- Alexandru Elisei
- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Patrick Mooney
- Sergiu Weisz
- Ben Widawsky
- John Baldwin

# Agenda Topics

- MI vs MD changes
- config

# Notes

**Alexandru Elisei:** Reworking the MI vs MD changes to not mix style
changes with content changes.

One major change: modified struct vmctx because it has x86-specific
highmem and lowmem.  I added a `struct vmmem` that is MD to describe
memory layout and then added an instance of that field to `struct
vmctx`.

**Rod Grimes:** Concerned that just pulling out memory structure might
not be enough.

**John Baldwin:** I think the goal should be to have the user
structures be opaque handles in which case we can change the internal
implementation freely without API or ABI concerns.

**Alexandru:** The only members are fd, name, and this new mem
structure.

**Alexandru:** About the timer functions, about the APIC currently I
decided to make them MI since arm has similar timers.

In the future we might add a type of virtual PIC abstraction to hide
APIC vs GIC to keep the vmmapi API shared and MI.

**John:** I think the interface to userland (device models) that PICs
need is actually pretty simple, just assert/deassert for PCI
interrupts and assert for an MSI interrupt.  They only need some kind
of opaque handle for each interrupt, not details such as pin numbers,
etc.

*more discussion about merging style changes separately and splitting
header files*

**Alexandru:** Question about function `vcpu_reset()`.  It doesn't
follow the usual convention of `vm_` prefix.  Also, why isn't
implemented as an ioctl?

**John:** Renaming this function is probably ok.  The only thing to
check is if grub2-bhyve uses it.  If so we will need compat shims.

**Patrick:** What is the ABI/API consideration for libvmmapi?

**John:** From FreeBSD's perspective it is generally a private
interface, except that grub2-bhyve is shipped separately in ports, so
we should try to not break grub2-bhyve.

**Alexandru:** Public function without prototype probably used in bhyve's
inout.c.  Turns out it is `vm_restart_instruction` prototyped in
`<machine/vmm.h>`.

Some functions I kept MI even though the ioctls aren't implemented yet
for arm64 (such as PCI pass through).

What about the capabilities API?

**John:** I think the userland functions will be MI and the API will
be MI, but but the list of capabilities will be an MD enum.

**Patrick:** Is there a smaller interface that grub2-bhyve consumes
that we want to mark as a committed interface while not exposing all
of the interface.

**John:** We could do this a couple of ways.  Simplest is to just add
annotations in the headers.

**Rod:** One option would be to drop bhyveload and grub2-bhyve and
just use UEFI.  With an improved CSM we would probably not need
grub2-bhyve anymore.

**Patrick:** Issues with iPXE with the CSM interface because iPXE
can't find any devices.  Was using virtio-net.

**Rod:** Michael was using the ne2000 emulation with iPXE and the CSM
ROM.

**Patrick:** I want to try to use the existing OVMF package as the ROM
for EFI instead of needing a custom EFI build.  We could use SeaBIOS
for CSM.  We could also reuse the work that the KVM folks are doing as
a result.

*much more discussion about UEFI / iPXE / ED2K*

*some talk about migration and how dirty page tracking will work on
FreeBSD vs illumos*

**Alexandru:** Wanted to see if anyone else are using arichardson@'s
patches to cross-build FreeBSD on Linux.

**Ben Widawsky:** I'm using them, work great.  Haven't run binaries
though, only run.

Next meeting is scheduled for the week of US Thanksgiving.  We will
skip that week and instead do the next meeting on November 29.  We
will likely also end up with a similar change in December to avoid
December 27th.
