# Attendees

- Alexandru Elisei
- Rod Grimes
- Marcelo Araujo
- Michael Dexter
- Patrick Mooney
- Mike Gertdts
- Elena Mihailescu
- Sergiu Weisz
- Bryan Cantrill
- John Baldwin

# Agenda Topics:

- bhyve maintainership
- UCL
- feedback from MeetBSD

# Notes

**Rod Grimes:** Peter asked for a bhyve group in phabricator and a
herald rule to auto-add reviews.  However, I can only add personal
rules, so I've added my own rules and then add bhyve manually.

Peter wanted the group to accomplish two things:

1. a way to tag commits and let people know about bhyve-related diffs
2. a way to approve commits as "bhyve".

We only have rules in MAINTAINERS for kernel bits, but not userland
bits.

**John Baldwin:** We should perhaps add some lighter-weight entries
for userland to request review, but not as hard a lock as the kernel
changes.

**Marcelo Araujo:** I've had issues with too strong a lock on the
userland portions that make it harder for new contributors to get
changes into the tree.

**John:** To be clear, I don't think we should have a hard lock on the
userland parts.

**Marcelo:** I've also heard some folks asking about moving bhyve out
to ports to make it easier to extend.  Also folks often ask about
having a better management interface than the `vmrun.sh` script.

I've also had problems on reviews with people who haven't actually
worked on the code adding noise to reviews, so I'm hesitant to force
review for userland changes.

**Rod:** Various GSoC patches that are stuck: audio device model, ATA
ISA device model, and NE2000 device model.

**Marcelo:** The audio one is stuck waiting for a change from Mariusz
to add a new function to Capsicum to permit re-opening sound channels
on the host.

**Alexandru Elisei:** What about just splitting bhyve into a separate
project.

**Patrick Mooney:** Right now you can just make a change in the kernel
and libvmmapi and bhyve all at once rather easily.  If you split them
up you would have to have a really well-defined boundary.

*more discussion here that was hard to capture*

**Alexandru:** Maybe we could use a VirtIO feature-based negotation
model.

**Patrick:** You could, but all of those will have overhead.

**Bryan Cantrill:** There are different approaches you could take,
e.g. ZFS and DTrace use different approaches.  It also depends a bit
on how much change you are expecting.  It can be dangerous to have a
repo that doesn't work anywhere as the source of truth as opposed to
having a source of truth that works and can be pulled into other
places.

**Patrick:** For us, we are pulling changes from FreeBSD, but it
wouldn't be a huge savings to have a separate bhyve-specific repo vs
pulling from FreeBSD.

**John:** Ok, let's switch to UCL.

Sharing Marcelo's slides from
https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/15s9rWCe8ILJB-wTP_cZFFWZrAPI0IzG3jKvi_2zHgss/edit?usp=sharing

- First config file based on Xen's config file ([D2448](https://reviews.FreeBSD.org/D2448))
  - Covered very few things, but not many devices
- Next, Allan Jude proposed two different formats
  - JSON-like with separate guest and host sections
  - Second more Xen-like with a mix of JSON
- We had several things in flight such as nvme and audio and we weren't
  sure what those were going to look like.  Peter wasn't sure our proposal
  would fit new drivers, so we had a lot of discussion.  Peter was going
  to create a specification for a config file(?), so I abandoned that
  revision.
- Allan revived the patch in 2017 and I've taken it back over this month.

- libvirt is a more complex format, but will have compatibility with other
  tools.

- things we still need beyond the existing review
  - a dry-run mode
  - translate between existing command line arguments and a config file and
    vice versa
  - automatically create network interfaces?

**John:** I don't think we should require command line arguments for
new features, but instead we should support existing command line
arguments as a legacy interface.

The other thought I think is that we should consider treating some of
the keywords as "shortcuts" such as disk and net, but still make it
possible to define them in a more verbose mode for more complex
layouts, e.g. using "device".

**Marcelo:** We need to think about how to handle extensibility,
perhaps using a version number like VMX.

**John:** I would lean on just adding new keywords rather than a
version number.

**Rod:** I think the VMX format is not great, but the list of things
they permit configuring is worth looking at.

**Patrick:** I would like to use more of a simple VMX-like format with
just key-value pairs.  You can then still support command lines by
having a way to set arbitrary pairs.  QEMU still lets you run without
a config file today and many people still use that.  In our case we
take our own zone config file and generate command line arguments.
I'd like to still have a way to do this all via a command line
interface somehow.

Maybe if you have a VM manager, maybe it could use this type of file
format and use it to invoke bhyve using a lower-level key-value format
for bhyve itself.

*more discussion*

**Patrick:** Would be unfortunate to require a writable file to start
bhyve.

**John:** Ok, I had thought about making config files manadatory
eventually, but I agree that I use qemu without a config file and we
should keep a command line argument interface.

**Rod:** We can always generate a flattened key-value config from a
structured config file.

---

# Action Items

- Michael Dexter to send followup e-mail with more thoughts from MeetBSD
- Alexandru to post a link to MI vs MD patches
- John will come up with a diff to MAINTAINERS to request (but not require)
  review for userland bhyve bits and post that for review
- John will bug phabric-admin@ to figure out how to setup suitable Herald
  rules for the #bhyve group on phabricator
- John will post his original FreeBSD Journal article on bhyve to his
  blog

A summary of the config file format discussion and a possible plan
forward from John:

1. For bhyve(8) itself, the configuration will use a list of key-value
   pairs without any nested structure.  We will probably add a new
   command line argument switch to set a single key-value pair (or
   maybe multiple pairs) similar to -o for ssh(8).  In addition,
   bhyve(8) should support an optional config file that also uses this
   flat format.  When both a config file and additional arguments are
   given, the config file should be parsed first and the command line
   arguments should be added on top of (or possibly override) settings
   in the config file.

   However, the flat config format will be designed so that it can be
   generated from structured formats.  One option might be to adopt a
   MIB-style format, so for example all of the nodes under a 'device'
   node in a UCL config file would be turned into individual
   'device.N.foo' keys.  The "N" would only be used to group these
   individual settings back together inside of bhyve and would have no
   other meaning besides being a way to group them.

2. To handle structured formats, a separate "runner" tool would parse
   a structured format and generate the "flat" format for use with
   bhyve and bhyveload.  This "runner" tool may (or may not) replace
   the functionality of the "vmrun.sh" script.  It is also an open
   question of if other existing runner tools such as vm-bhyve should
   be considered as a source of inspiration.

3. Marcelo noted that bhyvectl as it currently stands is mostly a
   low-level debugging tool, but a few things such as --destroy are
   used outside.  It may make sense to move higher level things out of
   bhyvectl and into the runner tool instead.

For the notion of runtime configuration of a VM, I have had some of my
own thoughts for a while about some of that.  In particular, bhyvectl
currently makes all of its requests directly to the kernel.  However,
for things like hotplug of devices, that really is something that
belongs in the userspace hypervisor.  If you wanted to do that via the
existing bhyvectl you would have to use the kernel to just marshal
requests over to the hypervisor.  I'm not really keen on that vs
having a way to talk to the bhyve hypervisor itself, perhaps over a
UNIX domain socket or the like.

One more thought I had is that we may want to allow the configuration
format to support parameterization.  For example, do we want to allow
the value of one variable to reference other variables.  This might
allow me to do something like this:

**devvms.conf:**

```
disk {
     type = "virtio-blk";
     path = "/home/john/work/bhyve/%(name)/disk.img"
}
```

`bhyve -f devvms.conf fbsd11`

And this would use `/home/john/work/bhyve/fbsd11/disk.img` as the
disk.  Related to this is if we want to support it in bhyve's native
flat config file vs just in the structured configs (my initial leaning
is that we do want it in bhyve itself if we want it at all).
