# Attendees

- Mihai Carabas
- Ben Widawsky
- Alexandriu Elisei
- Patrick Mooney
- Marcelo Araujo
- Bryan Cantrill
- Rod Grimes
- Darius Mihai
- Sergiu Weisz
- Elena Mihailescu
- John Baldwin

# Notes

**Patrick Mooney:** Joyent started with work in Solaris zones (similar
to BSD jails), but it became apparent that some jobs needed
virtualization.  We started by using KVM ported from Linux in 2010
(2011?).  However, we had forked from KVM and qemu and there was a lot
of upstream churn that made it harder to track upstream changes.  We
were missing support for Intel's vAPIC, and AMD's SVM (maybe just
NPT).  We were also missing PCI passthrough which was our most recent
painpoint in our KVM.  We were also not seeing great network
performance on our KVM/qemu.  Getting our KVM into the space where it
was performing well and had the features we wanted.

About a year ago we talked with Pluribus and got their then-current
patchset of a port of bhyve to OpenSolaris.  We shoehorned that into
SmartOS.  Pluribus' patchset was of an older version of bhyve.  Only
supported a single vCPU, very rough layer for supporting EPT.  Got it
working on SmartOS and to the point of booting a Linux guest with a
single CPU.  Once that PoC worked, we determined we needed to do the
work to get it updated.  We then pulled bhyve from FreeBSD 11.1 and
then forward ported that into the Pluribus port.  We had that finished
by the winter holidays.  We merged that into SmartOS master in
February.  The patches from Pluribus were committed under the license
Pluribus dictated that they wanted their changes licensed under CDDL,
which meant that the SmartOS changes are CDDL.

Some painpoints in porting were: not an exact match for
`critical_enter`, `critical_exit`, implicit recursion in mutexes in
FreeBSD when `INVARIANTS` are not enabled.

*discussion about bootroms UEFI vs grub2-bhyve*

**Patrick:** It seems like lots of folks use grub2-bhyve?  We want to
ship images compatible with KVM.

**Marcelo Araujo:** For guest OS's that don't support UEFI,
grub2-bhyve is the only option.

**Patrick:** Understood.  We can't use grub2-bhyve for our zones.  We
need a more mature CSM that to support e.g. iPXE.  Would like to pull
updated CSM from OVMF.

**Patrick:** We also don't support AMD in our port of bhyve partly due
to a shim we use to handle bhyve's nested paging.

**Marcelo:** We definitely need to update our UEFI to a newer version.
*mentioned Rebecca Cran from last week*

**Bryan Cantrill:** Want to clarify that the CDDL is due to the
request from Pluribus.

**Marcelo:** Would Pluribus be open to dual-licensing?  Also, what
about new work?

**Bryan:** The people we knew at Pluribus are no longer there.  We can
try again to ask.  Our policy is to upstream changes with a license
compatible with the upstream project.

**Patrick:** But any work we we've done on our own can be upstreamed
with any license as we see fit, right?

*some more discussion about licenses*

**Patrick:** We are not planning on upstreaming any of the changes
Pluribus did that are CDDL'd.

*some discussion about upstreaming bits under BSD or dual-license*

**Marcelo:** What about copyright policy?  There was some debate about
change to xhci?

**Bryan:** The copyright is always owned by the copyright holder.

*some discussion about what qualifies as a "de minimus" change*

**Bryan** points out that Oracle v Google made "de minimus" smaller.
An open question for us is if a change that just removes lines is "de
minimus" or not.

**Bryan:** A one-line bugfix is not a "de minimus" change.

**Bryan:** Possibly consider a "contributors" file type model where
copyrights are held by "contributors".  Maybe have a "Primary author"
annotation.

*a lot more back and forth*

**John:** I will go back to core@ and to talk about the larger
question.

**Bryan:** We want to do right by the community while also avoiding
talks with our in-house counsel.

**Patrick:** From my end I would really like to start upstreaming more
stuff to reduce our `#ifdef`s.

**Bryan:** One thing we want to do to help OpenZFS is to make illumos
more easily buildable by other folks.

**Patrick:** A question for testing: I can test builds on FreeBSD, but
I don't have hardware to test it running on FreeBSD directly.

**John:** Marcelo and I can help with doing runtime testing for now.

*some discussion about using microkernels for testing*

**Rod Grimes:** We could consider a version of nesting where we permit
guest hypervisors to run without EPT.

**Alexandru Elisei:** Has anyone read my thoughts on MI vs MD split in
the vmmapi?

**John:** I have not.

**Patrick:** Where did you send it?

**Alexandriu:** On the original thread, but I can resend it.

**Rod:** Any blocking issues for 12?

**John:** There is an open PR related to needing to reset the GDT
limit on VM exit: [PR 230773](https://bugs.freebsd.org/230773).

---

Post-call, **Ben Widawsky** suggested a good topic for the next call
would be to build a list of objectives / goals for bhyve.  For
example, what are some use cases that cannot currently be realized due
to missing functionality.
