# Attendees

- Alexandru Elisei
- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Patrick Mooney
- Sergiu Weisz
- Mike Gertdts
- Marcelo Araujo
- Bryan Cantrill
- John Baldwin

# Agenda Topics

- Separate MI from MD code in libvmmapi
- Separate MI from MD code in bhyveload/bhyve/bhyvectl
- Port [KVM-unit-tests](https://www.linux-kvm.org/page/KVM-unit-tests)
  to FreeBSD, specifically about licensing issues. KVM-unit-tests is
  licensed under GPL and LGPL version 2 and 2.1.
- bhyvecon details

# Notes

## bhyvecon

**Michael Dexter:** bhyvecon is colocated with AsiaBSDCon.  Next one
will be on the day before the devsummit instead of overlapping with
the devsummit.  Would like to devote some time to OpenZFS and to
NetBSD vmm developer (Kamil?).  AsiaBSDCon is March 21-24, bhyvecon
would be March 20.  Would be held at the IIJ building, same venue as
last year.

**John Baldwin:** I suggest announcing it on virtualization@.

**Patrick Mooney:** Have you thought about hosting an event in North
America?

**Michael:** I would like to piggyback on existing events when
possible.

**Rod Grimes:** Have you considered doing it along with BSDCan?

**John:** Possible date would be May 14, 2019.

- Michael to follow up with Dan.

## KVM Unit Tests

**John:** I don't think GPL matters for the KVM unit tests.  I don't
think we would import this into the base system, but install it as a
package, so GPL is fine.  Eventually we could run these tests in
Jenkins/CI.  If we need to implement the custom device models the
tests require, I think that would be fine to do.

**Alexandru Elisei:** I am using these tests for bhyve/arm64 which
only needs a custom uart.  I have a small patch to change how it
communicates VM shutdown.

**Rod:** What is required for bhyve/arm64?  Will it work on ThunderX?

**Alexandru:** ARM 8.0 with virtualization extensions and GICv3.  Most
smaller boards like RPi don't have GICv3.  No hardware yet for newer
virtualization extensions in 8.1.

## MI vs MD Changes

**John:** Current status of the MI vs MD changes?

**Alexandru:** I have changes tested and ready for review.  The
current set are posted on review.  I still need to do some more
testing.  I have split out some of the changes we talked about to
defer for later.  (This is for libvmmapi)

**Alexandru:** Next step is to think about the userland utilities.  I
think we should have separate directories amd64 and arm64 to hold MD
files.

**John:** Can we do something where we work through the utilities
splitting up individual subsystems or things instead of moving it all
to amd64 and back again.

*general agreement with this plan*

## Miscellaneous Topics

**John:** Are there any open bugs or stalled items that need to be
followed up on?

**Rod:** Bumping up the MAXCPU count is still an open item people are
requesting.  I plan to work on that in late December after 12.0
release is out.

There was also recently some activity about people having problems
booting VMs that use EFI and GOP.

**John:** Is this a regression in FreeBSD 12's EFI changes or in
bhyve?

**Marcelo:** I think the issue is about the console getting dropped.

**John:** Does it happen if you take an 11.x guest and boot it under a
12.0 host?

**Rod:** I'll ferret through my e-mail and find the thread and forward
to John so we can ask for more testing.

**Rod:** We should probably get a PR setup to track this.

**Marcelo:** John, have you looked at using nvlist for configuration.

*more discussion on this*

**Marcelo:** Anyone know of good ways to debug deadlock in userland
with threads?  Looking at audio GSoC patch but need a new casper
service with capsicum and I have a deadlock that is hard to debug.
The first time I play audio, it works.  The second time it spawns a
new thread that deadlocks.  The third time it works.  The fourth time
it deadlocks.  Using fileargs open from casper.  Without capsicum it
works fine.  Am waiting for Marius to test it.

*some back and forth about debugging and running gdb against the bhyve
process*

**Bryan:** Has anyone looked at getting bhyve to run against
FireCracker from Amazon.  It is based on KVM's ioctls.

**Patrick:** We could maybe have a shim that lives on top of libvmmapi
so we aren't stuck with an ioctl interface.

**Bryan:** FireCraker replaces qemu with a different user-level
machine interface.  It is focused on lightweight micro VMs.  It
constraints the guest quite a bit in terms of what it supports.  It
doesn't try to support Windows.  We (Joyent) will probably look at
FireCracker.

**Michael:** The other thing Amazon has announced are arm64 machines.
Maybe we could get a test machine?

**Bryan:** I doubt it since it is their own CPU.

**Michael:** I'm looking at the Overdrive 1000 from SoftIron.

*various*: ThunderX2 would be a nice testing platform for bhyve arm64.
It supports the 8.1 virtualization extensions and GICv3.

**Michael:** Also a Gigabyte board with a ThunderX2 CPU?

**Rod:** I have a question for Patrick about `MAX_CPU`?  You were able
to increase `MAX_CPU` without any problems?

**Patrick:** We are sitting at 32 right now and it works fine and we
have tested 48.

**Rod:** Has anyone else tried to raise it above 24?  I've seen
another report of success with 32 on the lists.

**John:** The EFI and bhyveload paths use different ACPI tables, so if
it is a limit in an ACPI table it might be specific to the bhyveload
case.
