# Attendees

- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Matthew Grooms
- Scott Phillips
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Chuck Tuffli
- Sergiu Weisz
- John Baldwin

# Notes

**Michael:** Thank you all for participating in bhyvecon Ottawa!
Strong encouragement for bhyvecon Europe.  Two bhyvecon Tokyo videos
are up with many more to come.

**Rod:** FreeBSD 11.3 Beta 1 is coming soon.  Please get changes in
ASAP.  (Discussion of what’s remaining, by priority. Rod, John,
Patrick.)

## 9pfs

**Michael:** Kirill P. would like to see the 9pfs server land in head.
Pooja at Juniper has a client.  Needs to be an actual patch.

## NVMe

**Chuck** and **Patrick** and were able to talk in Ottawa.

## Save and Restore

**Patrick** did not have overlapping days with the University team.
**John** was able to talk to **Mihai**.  Need a shorter path for
merging changes upstream.  First priority for UP is save and restore.
Second after that would be live migration.  The students at UPB have
availability until July 1.  ARM work will wait until later.  It can
probably be integrated by importing ARM into a separate subdirectory
for userland and migrating bits to MD subdirectories iteratively in
the tree.  Rebases are painful with the work living outside the tree.

**Darius:** Have been working on a [Device Field Analysis design
doc](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13wDSSeCs-vgtGAnKVGJtTNbAaom36w9BfnC_7hEaZ98/edit#gid=1699960346). Has
been doing his best to incorporate feedback from **Patrick**.  Local
APIC ESR firing needs attention.  Open discussion of what needs to
happen.  Darius will incorporate the feedback ASAP.

## EDK2

**Scott:** Working on CSM.  NVMe has issues with the new firmware.
Will reach out to **Chuck** when he has something definitive.
**Scott** is working on CURRENT.

**Rod:** Will be build *firmware*-devel ports for 11-stable?
Currently it may or may not show up in pkg search.  They are simply
binaries and can be added without issue.

## Live Migration

**Elena:** Has looked at migration time.  No questions for now.  Have
tried up to 9GB of RAM.  Migration time increases linearly.
Bottlenecked on the network.  Hopes to test 10GbE.

## NVMe

Chuck has several new reviews up. Please review.
- [D19904](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D19904) bhyve: Add Integrated
  Endpoint to PCIe Capability
- [D19905](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D19905) bhyve: Add EUI64 to
  NVMe device

## PCI-e and Device Models

**John:** All devices should probably appear as PCI Express devices.
Which revision of PCI-express do we want to choose for our device
models?

**Patrick:** Added more device vendors like i440FX to the hostbridge
device model so you can select a model or manually select a device and
vendor ID.

**Chuck:** Some devices check for QEMU. 

**John:** We could maybe make the AMD host bridge model an option of
the hostbridge model.  We may need to change these models from a PCI-e
root port to end point. Some OSs may expect hypertransport on AMD
hostbridge.

## D20065

**Rod:** [D20065](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D20065) Mark Johnston
abandoned it but an alternative went in?

**John:** The resulting commit did not make bhyve subject to the
resource limit. Abandoned for a reason and is resolved.

## if\_bridge(4)

Long-term topic: Is if_bridge(4) killing our network performance?  Kirill P. is using VALE with ptnet for performance.

**Rod:** Can we borrow from VALE?

**John:** Not directly for the kernel.
