# Attendees

- Patrick Mooney
- Rod Grimes
- Michael Dexter
- John Baldwin
- Hans Rosenfeld
- Elena Mihailescu
- Alexandru Elisei
- Darius Mihai
- Sergiu Weisz

# Notes

**Q:** Does OpenBSD have their own ACPI code? (Mike Larkin) Everyone pretends to be Windows.

**Q:** How many threads can Illumos boot on?  Rod is looking for ACPI dumps for machines with more than 100 and ideally 128 threads.

Copyright issues: **John Baldwin:** Core does not see a reason to do
anything differently than the rest of the tree.  Disputed some points.
A set of patches that are candidates probably meet the litmus test.
Hopefully that will meet the requirements.

**Patrick Mooney:** Has a delicate APIC patch.  Small, but precise.

**John:** “It depends.” Let’s take a look.

**Patrick:** Has some fixes to satisfy Tycho and will seek review.

**Elena Mihailescu:** Blocked on live migration memory comparison
issues.  Have differences that will cause the migrated guest to crash.
Looking for advice on how to debug this more effectively.  Involves
virtual memory system.  Relying on printf’s would crash the
host. Idea: Use bitfield from `struct vm_page`, when searching for
dirty bit pages, call `vm_page_test_dirty()`, see if `pmap_modified` -
checks if modify bit is set, should call `vm_page_dirty`.  Migration
searches the dirty pages, copies to buffer, transfer in userspace.
Seeing differences but don’t know the source.

Discussion between Elena, John, and Rod.  Elena has something to try.

**Patrick:** “Driver Interface Locking” questions for John:
Considering adding an API to SmartOS bhyve for `virtio_net`.  Need
some help with vcpu freezing?  Proposal drafted.  Split up locking for
bhyve resources in a given instance: 3 classes: per-vcpu locking,
threads executing will still lock the vcpu. Traded 2 older mechanisms
(i.e. memmap) which would block all vcpus.  Plus a class where nothing
about the vm state could change.  Lock last vCPU.  Replaced both with
concept of read lock and write lock.  Using in-kernel R/W lock
facility.  Read lock doesn’t lock any vCPUs, just reads. **Q:** What
locking primitive is best for FreeBSD?  Have a few flavors according
to the man pages.  The `virtio_net` driver grabs hold and keeps it for
some time.  Concept of a lease on a VM, would only let go if someone
attempts to grab the write lock.

**John:** How does the callback work to release the lock?

**Patrick:** Registers a callback and opaque pointer.  If you need the lock released, call it, holder will release it.  Will block until all readers free up.

**John:** Reason for more mechanisms on FreeBSD: Locking mechanisms inherited from BSD/OS.  BSD/OS's mutexes could not be held over a blocking malloc.

Discussion between Patrick and John.

Locks would be obtained under controlled conditions.

Conclusion: SX lock is the preferred one in FreeBSD.  Prefer not diverge.

Rod reviewed the review.  Looks like a good direction.  Last VM is special.

vCPUs kicked out.  Don’t need a lock.

**Rod:** Add Reviews to our bi-weekly calls to avoid duplication of
effort and encourage developers.  Alex +1, John OK, no objections.

**John:** Please list your reviews in priority order when appropriate.
Use parent/child mechanism in reviews.freebsd.org if appropriate.

**Rod:** `VM_MAXCPU` reviews: No review priority.  John please review.
Patrick has been very helpful.

WIP: Hit SMBIOS limit.  Resolved it.  Michael hit 255 ACPI limit.
John and Rod discussed how to resolve it.  Kostik should have an
acpidump for a system with more than 128 threads.  (Provided by
Patrick the same day.)

Bug 229852: Looks like people are working on it.  Need to find in
Reviews and add to Review list.

Welcome **Hans Rosenfeld**!  Works with Patrick.  Allan met up with
him at FOSDEM.  Working on a debugger target.  Working on PCI
pass-through for GPU (compute, BIOS is a HARD problem because “PCI
cards are often junk).  Illumos has mdb.  Modular debugger.  Added
bhyve VM support.  Looks different from the GDB back end.  Lacks
support for breakpoints but will add.  FreeBSD has an mdb port that
only supports the kernel.  (In ports, rather old snapshot.)

**Patrick:** Question on bhyve configuration relating to key-value
syntax.  Are `-k` and `-K` reserved?  Use for key/value pairs?  SSH
uses `-o` for options (ZFS too?), `-f` for config file.  John has
ideas on a config store (tree, mib, dotted syntax?).  ESXi style.
Build a tree if you like.  Make sure current parameters have analogs
in the new syntax.  Commands as wrappers.  “Device” creates a device
node to be configured.  Nvlists?

**Rod:** Use common VMware mibs?  Don’t want to maintain compatibility
per-se.  Some are universal and can be cherry-picked.

Interrupt requests:

**Michael:** bhyvecon site updated and is targeting March 20th. I’m
looking for presenters!

**Q:** Host minutes on the GitHub bhyve group for long-term archiving?
Let’s find out who controls the GitHub bhyve group.

Next meeting: Feb 21st
