# Attendees

- Rebecca Cran
- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Chuck Tuffli
- Sergiu Weisz

# Notes

## NVMe

**Chuck** has posted a [Design
document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1C6yBeeZ-1MGAvbbbWV00wx_lNzEw4JS39yviW31dmbg/edit?usp=sharing)
for a change to NVMe locking modifications.  Not clear on how some of
it works, particularly the threading model.  Has a link to
reviews.freebsd.org in the design document.

**Chuck** had a review for a NVMe/PCI express compatibility bit
change. (Link speed and channel width) **Q:** How many spec-mandated
features do we want to implement? The NVMe spec also describes power
management.

**Patrick:** Survey the other virtualization solutions for guest
expectations.

## Save and Restore

**Patrick** has sent an example of the virtualized LAPIC doc.

**Darius** and **Elena** have provided a sample.

**Patrick** will take a look. **Q:** Follow this model for other devices:

1. Establish what to save and what not to save.
2. Decide on what sanitization to perform.
3. Once you’ve chosen a device to handle, decide what to expose.
   Define a central set of structures between kernel space and user
   space need to be handled and in turn serialized to disk etc.

**Patrick:** Rather than expose kernel state to user space, define
what state needs to be saved.  Abstract away kernel internal state.
The kernel’s time mechanism should not matter.  Kernel can decide how
to handle the time information it has been provided etc.
Serialization or versioning can be done in userspace.  A private
structure would facilitate copying information out of the kernel.
Prefer not write JSON from the kernel.  Need a version spec if we do
it in libvmmapi as this is certain to change?  **Q:** Would this lead
to duplication of code in kernel and userspace?  Headers must be kept
in sync?  Shouldn’t be an issue.

**Elena:** Also need to save VMX per-VCPU struture?

**Patrick:** Must scrutinize VMCS (Intel) and VMCB (AMD) state fields
carefully. APIC state must be preserved.  Dangerous to expose VMCS
state and jeopardize the host.  Look at other implementations?  Some
VMCS information can be derived from other state information.

**Darius:** Who can we verify the role of fields with?  The datasheets
provide some information.  Intel volume 3: APIC information.  Same for
RTC (DS1387), PIT.  Didn’t find documentation for all devices.  Just
ask around.

## EDK2

**Rebecca:** Working to get the edk2 devel port update.

**Patrick:** Concern for testing CSM.  Crashes in early switching code.

**Rod:** Probably need to bring forward Tycho’s previous CSM work.
Stock edk2 is limited for CSM.  Misses legacy BIOS components.
Patrick could build SeaBIOS as a BIOS payload.  PCI device enumeration
worked.  iPXE worked.  Still work to be done.  There are GPL concerns.
There is value in both approaches: Native CSM and SeaBIOS.  Worth
looking at the prior CSM work from Tycho and Leon.  Diff it with
Tianocore.

## `VM_MAXCPU`

**Rod:** Down to doing mallocs for structures and structures to
pointers?  Must check for null pointer.

**Patrick** has a good sense of what needs to be done.
