# Attendees

- Sergiu Weisz
- Patrick Mooney
- Rod Grimes
- Michael Dexter
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- John Baldwin

# Notes

**Michael Dexter:** bhyvecon Tokyo will be March 20th, a day before
AsiaBSDCon, and bhyvecon Ottawa is likely to happen a full day before
BSDCan.  Please discuss your talk and WIP ideas with Michael.

**John Baldwin:** Regarding PHK’s inquiry: There is a better way to do
that in ports.  Consider using conserver in ports after wiring the
serial port to an instance of nmdm(4).  Patrick has a way in SmartOS
(feel free to add it).

**Patrick Mooney:** Has been working on AMD support.  Testing on a Zen
system.  (Note the AMD review in the list)

Please watch the Reviews list for reviews that can be closed because
the code is already committed or obsolete.

Joyent and FreeBSD Copyrights: No compelling reason to diverge from
standard project practices.  Not considering a CONTRIBUTORS file at
this time.  A group of patches should satisfy the litmus test.  Be
clear in Reviews how you would like attribution.  Be VERY conscious of
license adjustments/corrections.

**Patrick** to submit a review for the Fix broken uart on Win2016 guest
code change.  Rod to shepherd through to commit.

**Patrick** has a posted interrupts fix coming too.  Hopefully Tycho’s
original concerns are addressed.  Will post to reviews.freebsd.org

[Bug 234134](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=234134):
VM Name length from 32 characters.  Make a dynamic allocation?  Base
on `NAME_MAX`.  **Rod** will create a differential to make it dynamic
for further review.

**Elena Mihailescu:** Provided a status report on her VM migration
memory corruption issue.  Will continue the discussion by email.
Thank you Mark Johnston for your assistance!  Rod asks to please add
@virtualization to the email thread.

`VM_MAXCPU`: Review priority:

- [D18755](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18755)

  Remove the “=0” line until needed to satisfy Coverity and not
  confuse reviewers. Otherwise OK to commit.
  
- [D18815](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18815)

  Approaching but not crossing 1MB ACPI table limit.
  
- [D18816](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18816)

  Per-vCPU IPI statistics.  Is this something DTrace cannot solve?
  Rewrite the ioctl?  Can't change the constant in the header as it
  breaks the user ABI.  Stats table overflows at 24 vCPUs and loses
  per-IPI stats.  John is willing to clean up the ioctl.  A runtime
  check is fine for now.  Will revise.
  
- [D18846](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18846)

  NOP change to make future code simpler.  Long-term goal: A per-VM
  structure.  Will proceed step by step.
  
- [D17874](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D17874)

  All have approved it.  All commits must be reviewed.
  
- [D18998](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18998)

  Unexpected encounter while working on maxcpus.  Will limit to 254
  for now.  Add overflow checking.  SMBIOS 3.0 spec has additional
  fields for higher counts.  Now have corecount, threadcount (8bit),
  corecount2, threadcount2 (16bit).  Since we provide a version 2
  table, just cap for now.

Next meeting: 2019-03-07
