# Attendees

- Rebecca Cran
- Michael Dexter
- Alexandru Elisei
- Rod Grimes
- Anish Gupta
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Scott Phillips
- Chuck Tuffli
- Sergiu Weisz
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## bhyvecon Update

**Michael Dexter:** All recordings collected and will post ASAP.
Thank you all for participating!  Having Mike Larkin from OpenBSD
comment on FreeBSD Reviews was very helpful.  There is high value in
bringing people together.

## EDK2 Update

**Scott Philips:** Everything is working so far.  Can HTTP boot an ISO
image.  Option for EFI binary OR ISO image/RAM Disk Mode.  To Do:
Testing to gain confidence.  Have not worked on the CSM side of it.
Please test.

**Patrick Mooney**: CSM is certainly of interest to Joyent.  Joyent
has been using GCC 4.4 and is trying to move to 7.

Scott built with GCC 8 with Rebecca.  Leveraged OVMF work and added
bhyve components to it?  Took bhyve patches, rewrote against OVMF, now
deltas on OVMF and simply rebased through the history.

**Patrick:** CSM and graphics appear to be bhyve-specific.

**John Baldwin:** Could make a -devel port that pulls from the new
branch.  Should possibly consider using flavors instead of a slave
port for the CSM port as well.  **Q:** Can we change bhyve to reduce
the diffs?

**Scott:** OVMF is Very QEMU oriented, much querying over I/O ports.
Could move ACPI pmtimer I/O ports to avoid a conflic with QEMU's debug
log I/O port to work around QEMU detection.

**Patrick:** I ran into the same issue when porting SeaBIOS which
would unconditionally detect QEMU.

Moving the ports requires fixing the ASL that bhyve generates, as well
as the ASL in the EFI ROM, but would not break OS's.  One option is to
implement the QEMU interfaces.  Keeping custom bhyve-specific firmware
interface requires patches to OVMF and SeaBIOS vs. emulating QEMU’s
firmware interface which would hopefully let us use unmodified OVMF
and SeaBIOS.

**Scott:** One thing we ran into is that EDK2 wants to use multiple
CPUs during the boot phase and then send them an INIT IPI to shut them
back down again before the OS boots. bhyve doesn’t support that.

**John:** That’s fixable.  One option is to have the kernel just put
the vcpu thread to sleep until the OS sends the second INIT/STARTUP,
but the debug server (gdb stub) might need to know as it wants the
threads to sleep in userland when a debugger attaches.

## Save and Restore

[Design Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SKm72Ez-bl5jMifJ6yxwr4ckNuNRh5MQq__k7bLs2bE/edit)

**Patrick:** I have some high-level questions: Wondering about some
justifications.  How can we expose as little state as possible from
say, in-kernel devices, state of drivers that are emulated, what
exactly does it mean when we save the state of each component?  How do
we preserve the state of a timer while exposing as little as possible.
Save raw SBT or other format?  Subtract time from current time?
Biggest concern: Exposing raw struct state. **Q:** How do we constrain
the amount of information we are exposing.  Do we want to save
capability bits of the control structure?  Leave it to bhyve to
determine what is restored?  Keep our saved state as generic as
possible.  While a path to live-migration, how can we support
dissimilar hosts?  If state is highly-exposed, it may be overly
host-specific.

**John:** Another way of saying that is that we want a serialized VM
state format.  The current approach requires running bhyve with the
exact arguments on both hosts.  However, bhyve should be able to
resume based on the information provided in the resume image.

**Patrick:** Could be a challenge to rehydrate from only register
state. Could provide an interface to give a time offset in the future,
rather than exact time.

**John:** Rather than having a separate file "meta" file that stores
offsets into the "kern" file, we should add hooks to let each virtual
device save a device-specific chunk of state and restore from a saved
state.  The VM snapshot file shold then store these together in some
kind of hierarchical structure.  The file could use base64 and/or JSON
which might mean it is even editable in some cases.

**Patrick** thinks having a somewhat readable state file is a good
thing.  Proposes using nvlist as the data structure in the bhyve
process itself to manage the serialized state.

**Michael** wonders if we can reuse the format of some other existing
hypervisor instead of inventing a new one.  **Q:** Other state formats
to look at?

**Patrick:** Not there yet.

**Patrick:** I'm concerned about the addition of ioctl to lock all
vCPUs.  Because all in the context of the bhyve process, we can stop
that in user-space.  Locking all vCPUs seems unnecessary and could be
dangerous.  Makes the assumption that vCPUs are locked.  Exiting ioctl
with all locked could be dangerous.  Has had issues with deadlocks due
to vCPUs locking in SmartOS.

**John:** The debug server uses an ioctl to force vCPU threads to exit
to userland where they then suspend.  We could perhaps make this ioctl
more general and then multiplex in userland to figure out a reason for
why the vCPU was requested to exit.

**Patrick** lesson from I/O APIC: Easy to deadlock.  **John** has
lessons from the debug server.

**Darius Mihai:** vCPUs locks mostly inherited from previous students
and was the easiest approach.  No fundamental objection to a better
approach.  Timers: Saving what the guest sees.  LAPIC: Current timer
register.  Time stamp counter (TSC): Value as seen by guest with
offset.

More discussion on virtual device state:

**John:** I think we should consider a serialized format using nvlist
in bhyve.  If we version it, we can start by using the current format
as version 0 and then iterate on it on devices since someone familiar
with a given device will best understand what state is actually
required.

Trim excessive exposed information as you go device by device.

**Patrick:** I just want us to handle all the in-kernel devices in the
first pass.  Anything in and out of the VM control structure must be
verified to not crash the machine.

**Rod Grimes:** State history may be required for proper restore.

**John:** You just need to save a snapshot of whatever internal state
machine a device has.  This might be done as internal "virtual"
registers included in the snapshot that are in addition to any guest
OS-visible registers.

**Patrick:** Virtualized devices should be pretty straight forward.
Example of APIC: When using virtual APIC and posted interrupts, we
should flatten into the normal, well-defined register set state of the
APIC.  You can then restore this on systems with or without virtual
APIC support.

**John:** The focus should be trying to save hardware descriptions.

Please add to the design doc: walk through all devices for what we
need to preserve the state of each.  Then roadmap of how to handle
each.  The team will need help with several devices.  Also need input
on potential security issues.  Scope is around 15 devices in
userspace.

**Patrick** wants to start with in-kernel device because errors have
greater impact.  Patrick is happy to help.  Porting bhyve to SmartOS
was very helpful for learning about each device for someone without a
hardware background. Understand the device and its easier to
implement.

**Anish Gupta** also has insights.

**Darius:** Not sure about validation.

**Anish:** There is quite a bit of hardware validation when loading
vCPU state.

**Patrick:** We should know in advance if state is valid without
relying on an exit.

**John** agrees but thinks those exits can be useful as a debugging
tool in case the restore is really hosed.

**Anish:** Intel has a tracing feature where you can request a VM exit
after each virtual CPU instruction which is very useful for debugging.

**John:** The GDB stub in bhyve uses this for single-stepping.  You
can connect GDB to a virtual machine and use the Intel monitor trap to
single step.

**Anish:** AMD doesn't have this though.

**John:** Yes, for AMD we'd have to do something more complicated
where we emulated the trap flag in `%eflags` and intercepted `DB#`
exceptions.  I spoke to someone from ARM at a conference this summer
and they had to do that for the same functionality in KVM on Linux.
It's very painful and hard to get right.

## NVMe emulation

Two bugs up for review on FreeBSD's Phabricator:

- [D19676](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D19676) bhyve: Fix NVMe BAR
  size calculation

  The Windows NVMe driver expects the device's BAR0 size to be at
  least 16K bytes.  This is actually a mistake in the NVMe
  specification that was never caught, but is being enforced by
  Windows nonetheless.  The actual amount of memory needed for the BAR
  is dependent on the number of supported IO queues and thus can vary.
  The proposed fix is to make the BAR0 size a minimum of 16K bytes.
  The fix has been tested and verified by the original reporter.

- [D19695](https://reviews.FreeBSD.org/D19695) bhyve(8): Fix NVMe data
  structure copy to guest
  
  The emulation code was incorrectly using the PRP values in Admin
  commands in such a way as to cause core dumps and other havoc in the
  guest OS.
