# Attendees

- Michael Dexter
- Matthew Grooms
- Patrick Mooney
- Scott Phillips
- Chuck Tuffli
- Sergiu Weisz
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## Various Open Reviews

Someone noted that there is a discussion in
[D20065](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D20065) between **Mark Johnston**
and **Konstantin Belousov** about how wired memory should be accounted
for in bhyve and how it relates to limits on wired memory.

Various folk asserted that the list of open tickets on the running
agenda needs updating.

**Patrick** has a ticket on barriers and locks.  People are having an
issue but Patrick cannot reproduce.  VirtIO in userspace is not
properly issuing a memory barrier.  Host can skip issuing an interrupt
for the guest.  Under Linux, an interrupt was never received for
completion.  See: (D19501)[https://reviews.freebsd.org/D19501]

**John** and **Rod** have added some input on the (vIOAPIC
rendezvous)[https://cr.joyent.us/#/c/5720/] review. Further discussion
after John’s arrival.

**Chuck** has an NVMe locking change up for comment at
(D19841)[https://reviews.freebsd.org/D19841].  Working on NVMe drive
authenticity.  “Authentic enough to make Windows happy but not
difficult to maintain.”  **Q:** Should it pass the NVMe test suite?
The QEMU/Linux implementation did not implement the full command set.
Should this be a reference design for folks like the UNH testing lab?

## FreeBSD 11.3 Release

The FreeBSD wired memory changes should not impact Illumos at this
time.  Will have a knob to preserve old behavior to not break 11 and
12 current users if it gets merged.  **John** has a list of what has
not been merged to 11.  AMD IOMMU might be too much to merge back.
Same with VirtIO SCSI and NVMe which do not exist on 11.  Focus on bug
fixes rather than features.  Debug server may be okay to go back, but
John doesn't have a way to test it.  **Rod** is working on CPU
Topology.  Changes to report topology via cpuid on AMD are important
to MFC.
