# Attendees

- Mihai Carabas
- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Matthew Grooms
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Pooja Rao
- Sergiu Weisz
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## EuroBSDCon

John, Matthew, and Mihai plan to attend EuroBSDcon.  Fundraising will
be needed for a bhyvecon if one is held.

## 11.3

Most top reviews made it in. Some AMD MSR fixes would be nice to get
in.  Would need a Ryzen system to test.  An RFB bug will cause a
panic.  Bug
[238333](https://bugs.freebsd.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=238333)
zlib compression on VNC-related?

## AMDvi and PCI passthrough

John fixed a couple of issues with PCI passthrough devices where the
MSI-X table and PBA are in separate BARs.  While debugging those,
gallatin@ also tripped over a panic in the AMDvi code when detaching
ppt(4) when ppt’s detach routine moved the device back into the
“default” domain in the IOMMU.  Did not end up using kgdb to chase
that to the ground.  Might be reproducible via ‘devctl detach ppt0’ on
an AMD system.

## Netmap work

Vincenzo’s netmap work. Looks like the right parties are in
dialog. [D20276](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D20276) Allow guests to
set a jumbo MTU when VALE is used.

## 9pfs
Interested parties please reach out to Michael for a separate discussion.

## Save/Restore

Darius ran into an issue.  Guest memory changing during the snapshot?
PRDTL table length issue?  Open discussion.

The issue seems to be that the length field in one of the AHCI command
descriptors is overwritten by the guest, possibly by the guest
thinking it got a timeout on an earlier command and issuing a reset of
the controller and rewriting the command ring.  This probably argues
for suspending the vCPUs before trying to drain the I/O threads.

Hope to commit Save and Restore as an experimental feature that is
certain to change. Should have a version number to support altering
the file format over time. Last rebased March 7th. Will need to be
updated for MAX_VCPUs. Above all: Put it under an #ifdef.

## Misc

**Patrick:** Heads-up: ESR simplification and vIOAPIC landing in
SmartOS bhyve.

**Q:** Who’s tested Scott’s UEFI work?

**Q:** SeaBIOS port? Will build as a CSM.

**Q:** Does FreeBSD have AMD Epic/Ryzen hardware in its cluster?
