# Attendees

- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Matthew Grooms
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Chuck Tuffli
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## Save/Restore

Elena and Darius have been working on patch feedback that Patrick provided.

**Darius:** Received Patrick’s feedback and is implementing it.  Nothing
pushed yet. `VM_NAME` variable question, already provided by the vm
context structure.  Could retrieve it from there.  Some buffers in
quest in guest memory.  Saving pointers rather than contents: Will
update the review.  Open discussion.  Had some AHCI save/restore
issues by saving the size structure.  Went out of bounds.

**Patrick:** Note that size is there for verification, not data
transfer.  Gave them some review yesterday.  Were the locking comments
clear?  libvmmapi is not thread-aware.  bhyve(8) knows about worker
threads, API does not.

**John:** Will assist with #ifdefs. Needs to look at a few more points.

**Patrick:** The threads could provide a point of contention.

**John:** Could distinguish from debugger and suspend/resume exits.

**Darius:** Locks are in vm_context structure.

Open discussion.

## Reviews

**Patrick:** Thank you John for looking at the PIT one.

**John:** Had an ABI change but updating will take care of that.

Patrick has been using it in production for a year.  Mark has been
watching it.  IOAPIC is next. Need to test with MSI turned off.

Patrick/John: Looking ways to turn off level-triggered interrupts.

John will look at save/restore. Patrick will look at John’s config work.

## Clocks

**Patrick:** KVM pretends to be Hyper-V for the clock. Idea: “Which
host do I want to pretend to be” Linux watches for KVM to use the
paravirt clock.  Pretending to be KVM or Hyper-V is probably the
easiest approach, especially for older kernels.

## Configuration

Michael learned that VMware has open source (Apache) [configuration
APIs](https://github.com/vmware).  Will investigate.

## Misc

**Chuck:** Needs to run experiments based on Patrick’s feedback.  All
reviews up to date.

John has a nagging [PCI pass-through
bug](https://bugs.freebsd.org/205549) passing XHCI device to Linux
guests, will not work on second reboot.

Patrick: Maybe AHCI/XHCI handoff?

John: Graceful/ungraceful shutdown?
