# Attendees

- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Matthew Grooms
- Mark Johnston
- Scott Long
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Sergiu Weisz
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## D20920

**Rod** to Mark: Are we putting a 64 bit value into a 32 bit value?
[D20920](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D20920) line 2118, Mark has made
a comment in the review.

## Testing / CI

**Michael** to Mark: Clang 8 issue: What CI could catch that?  Head is
compiled with 8.

“Any CI system would be better than what we have today.” Mark has used
vm-bhyve.

**Rod:** Consider Windows scripted installs.

**Patrick:** It’s slow. Windows image creation is not elegant.  Very
slow boots.

John has a branch with config related changes.

## Bug 234134

**Scott:** Bugzilla [234134](https://bugs.freebsd.org/234134): VMX
namelen increase.  Testing it.  Increased the VM name to 238
characters, and GUID length.  Review up shortly.  Hope to have it in
time for 12.1.  `SPECNAMELEN` is why it is different length in 12 and
HEAD.

## Maintership

**Michael:** Commits without MAINTAINER approval.  Close/reopen
addressed.  Hadn’t been Capsicumized correctly.

**Rod:** Will we stop using MAINTAINER approval?

**Scott:** This team has nebulous goal posts.

This problem is not limited to bhyve.

**Michael:** If you have a concrete proposal, propose it.

**Scott:** Having a single MAINTAINER is limiting.

## Save/Restore

**Mark:** Wants to talk about page modification logging.

**John:** Save and restore update: Darius has been active. John plans
to build off of his branch to work out ifdefs. Man page updates.

**Q:** vCPU locking. Goal: Remove the ioctls. Rebase due. VM_MAXCPUS is not in sync. FreeBSD is trying to avoid nested includes.

**John:** Plan is to use a build option. `WITH_BHYVE_SNAPSHOT`
src.conf and `BHYVE_SNAPSHOT` kernel config option.

**Mark:** Page modification logging.  You can log up to 512 page
modifications and then need to drain the log after a VM exit.

Elena is planning for AMD support, so didn't want to require this feature.

**John:** Is this a recent Intel feature?  Which CPU’s have this feature?

**Mark** saw a 2015 whitepaper on it.  Maybe since Haswell.  Should
find the feature flag.

## Configuration Changes

**John** has a bhyve_config branch with changes.  Uses NV lists with
mibs.  Can use flat name=value or a subset of the tree.  Has a simple
config file parser. Has indirection for %(full path of another config
variable).  Needs to add device support.

https://github.com/bsdjhb/freebsd/tree/bhyve_config 

Can dump and restore the config which could assist save and
restore.  Can eventually parse UCL config files as well.

**Patrick:** Consider %% escaping.
