# Attendees

- Patrick Mooney
- Rod Grimes
- Alexandru Elisei
- Michael Dexter
- Elena Mihailescu
- Darius Mihai
- Sergiu Weisz
- Mike Gertdts

# Agenda Topics

- VM_MAXCPU changes

# Notes

**Patrick Mooney** and **Rod Grimes** discussed Agenda Item 1.  Rod
needs John’s feedback and approval for his
http://reviews.freebsd.org/D18755 ticket.

**Alexandru Elisei** plans on targeting the ARM v8.1 ThunderX2 CPU.

Inside the Intel VMX implementation, array elements are based on
VM_MAXCPU and need to be moved out and need to be malloc’d at vm start
time.  Question of Intel/AMD implementation differences.  Patrick
believes we can make that work.  May be a shared structure.

Also, we lock vCPU `(MAX_CPUID-1)` why lock only one vCPU?  Patrick
has been looking at resource exclusions.  Many operations exist within
the vCPU context and must lock it. (Changing the memory map etc.)
Might toggle a local interrupt which does not impact that but you
don’t want your context changing.  `MAX_CPU-1` workaround.  Lock
highest vCPU ID for safety of VM-exclusive operations.  Rod’s work
will touch all of these.  Create a lock flag?  Patrick wants to redo
how they do vm exclusion.  Patrick is using read/write locks for that.
Patrick locks all vCPUs and grabs the “writer” lock and “read” lock as
needed.  Memory map ioctls only care that the memory map does not
change.  Either… grab the one vCPU lock, write lock or read lock,
hopefully achieving what you need to do.  Patrick’s work should be
applicable to FreeBSD.  Rod is targeting minimal impact.  Will call
the -1.

Something was stalling for Rod.  20 second surprises.  There appears
to be something at vm start and vm stop time that is locking my system
for up to ~20 seconds where my ssh session into it appears totally
dead.  I need to investigate if the console is also dead.

Illumos has a memory creation shim.

Sounds like Patrick and Rod are in agreement on the direction.

**Patrick:** Driver Interface Locking.  Added some APIs for drivers to
host-presented devices to access in-kernel space.

Viona: VirtIO Net Accelerator inherited from Pluribus.  Wanted to call
in-kernel state from in-kernel driver.  Checksum offload, TCP
segmentation offload.  Patrick added a series of functions vmm_vrd?
(hard to read).

(Patrick please list features)

- Can hook and unhook an I/O port. 
- Can send a message signal interrupt (MSI/MSI-X), packets in or out, they can send an interrupt without trapping out to userspace. Send directly to VM? Cut down much overhead.

Simple model: A high-level hold. The driver will get the handle to the
VM and will pass the VM file descriptor and will hold on to it for the
life of the VM.  Works because they hard-allocate the memory.  No
memory paging mechanism.  Large segments of memory.  Nothing faked
with paging.  Less than ideal in the long term.  If the guest memory
map changes, tearing down this hold is expensive.

Gets a callback when a vm makes a change related to interrupts,
falling back to legacy etc.  Don’t bother the kernel with that.

There were three classes of locks on the VM: Lock single vCPU, take
actions on VM but not in the context of the vCPU, major lock on all
vCPUs.  Locking all of them was still inadequate.  Has a draft to lock
single vCPU, all vCPUs (write lock), like vmm.dev from FreeBSD?

- `vcpu_unlock_all`
- `vmm_read_lock`
- `vmm_write_lock`

**Rod:** Much better than grabbing one vCPU ID.  May do less cache
contamination.  Big operations should be rare.  You don’t change the
memory map option.  No need to take the read lock to receive writes.
Want to keep frequent operations low overhead.  Not punishing the last
vCPU on the system if we want to send an interrupt or examine the
memory map.

The addresses that Viona receives from the kernel could be inaccurate
if the memory map changes.  Take the write lock, need to make sure
that external drivers are not impacted.  Kept out of the vmstruct for
safety?  vcpu_locks are in the vm struct, but read/write is above it.

**Q:** Set a default max CPUs or default to the host topology, for max
flexibility? Default to one vCPU, one thread. No hot-add today from a
command-line utility.  No reason to be the same on FreeBSD and Illumos
but also no reason to diverge.  Rod will follow the Illumos model for
default max vCPUs.

Every two weeks still works for Patrick, most on the call. 
Next meeting the 2019-01-24.

**Q:** Publishing minutes and possibly a recording. Rod is impressed
with how OpenZFS is doing it and Michael advocates following their
example in many regards. NO objections from the folks present to
publishing minutes and possibly a recording.

Illumos: Seeking a “big theory statement” to cover the full context.
Patrick is working on a draft proposal.
