# Attendees

- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Matthew Grooms
- Darius Mihai
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Scott Phillips
- Sergiu Weisz
- John Baldwin

# Notes

## Save and Restore

**Darius:** Continuing the spec document about devices.  CPU-specific
issues still waiting.  Unclear on some fields for some devices.  Not
sure how to handle them.  PIC (replaced by LAPIC), PIT - only timer we
can depend on.

**Patrick will** review.  Has PIC/LAPIC questions.  One field we can
remove with refactoring.  Some could be exempted from save and restore
on newer processors.

**Matthew:** Has sponsored the Bucharest work.  IT and C/C++ dev for
20 years.  FreeBSD user.

## Open Reviews

**John:** Windows virtio review
([D18831](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18831)): John wants to use a
constant to remove the magic numbers (64 -> 128) in the `block_if.c`
change.  The existing constant (`BLOCKIF_IOV_MAX`) is the number of
scatter-gather entries in a request.  The `BLOCKIF_MAXREQ` constant is
the max number of pending requests and has to increase to match the
increased virtio queue size, so not quite suitable to reuse
`BLOCKIF_IOV_MAX` to replace the `128`.  John will add a new constant
along with a static assertion instead.

## 11.3 Release

**Rod:** Now is the time for changes to be merged into stable/11.
`VM_MAXVCPU`, partial work going in and quickly merged to 12 and 11.
Has anything made it to 12 but not 11?

**John** will review what hasn’t been merged.

Windows fixes are needed (UART and VirtIO. Chuck’s NVMe work?) as it
would be good to ship 11.3 with all known Windows guest issues
addressed.

## Save and Restore

**Patrick:** Save restore/LAPIC questions: Go straight to phabricator
or review elsewhere?

**John, Rod:** Put it in a review at reviews.freebsd.org

## EDK2 and NVRAM Backing Store

**Scott** has posted a
[writeup](http://scott.ph/2019/04/bhyve-uefi-http-boot) and has
reviews up for persistent NVRAM variables!  Need to test CSM.  Desired
by Joyent.  The code is all there but requires debugging.  Tianocore
or Tycho’s?  This is the bhyve CSM work that is being brought forward.

**John:** Should be able to single step it on Intel with GDB and the
debug server.

**Patrick** notes that single stepping doesn't work if the issue is
due to spinning in an interrupt.

**Rod** thinks it is due to some kind of `NULL` pointer dereference in
the firmware.  Maybe we’re missing a structure?  Need a legacy BIOS
expert.

Reviews are up for R/W boot ROM area (NVRAM).  There is a driver in
the firmware that is having R/W issues.  Discussion about arrangments
of backing store (separate read-only boot ROM and writable vars files
vs a single file holding both).  Also questions about how to init the
separate file.

**Scott** currently has a template file that can be copied
for new VMs.

**Rod** notes that if the checksum fails, the ROM will
just write out a new NVRAM blob, so we could rely on that and use a
zeroed file to start.

**John** wants to have a way to make this less
"foot-shooty" if possible by having bhyve(8) able to size the file or
reject invalid file sizes.

**Patrick** notes that real hardware probably just hardcodes the size
of the NVRAM area in the BIOS build: “Hardware BIOS doesn’t walk away
on you!”

**Patrick** thinks it is untenable to have bhyve try to handle NVRAM
file size failures once the ROM is running, so querying the ROM at
runtime isn't feasible.

**John** agrees and would be fine with hardcoding the current size
(512MB) in bhyve for now.

There is general agreement on having separate files for boot ROM and
NVRAM and not worrying about someone compiling their own combined
custom ROM that would fail to boot.

## Reference VMs

**John** notes he has updated
[D18831](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D18831) from earlier in the call
and it has booted ok for FreeBSD guests.

**Rod** asks if John could use a Windows image to test booting
Windows.

There is then a general question about having reference VMs for
Windows, Linux, etc.  For Windows we could use VMs without a key (they
work for 30 days).  **John** thinks picking some kind of reference
Linux VM would be a good thing.

The CSM ROM was not an option for Joyent.

**Rod:** Should use UEFI for Windows 8 onward.
