# Attendees

- Michael Dexter
- Rod Grimes
- Matthew Grooms
- Scott Long
- Darius Mihai
- Patrick Mooney
- Pooja Rao
- Chuck Tuffli

# Notes

Rod and Patrick: Reviews discussion.

## Save/Restore

Question: Should the save/restore be activated via project branch,
#ifdef, or some other mechanism.  There is no question that the design
will change and design changes are required.  Fear: each bhyve
contributor should also build with it to guarantee that continues to
build.  Exported opaque kernel blocks must be broken up with a
versioned profile for each generation of the configuration.  Currently
pushing in and out of VMCS without verification.  Controls should not
be saved.  Are there standards or save/restore?  Rod met an Intel
developer at LFNW who is promised to investigate models to follow.

**Q:** TSC Offsetting, what time-related behavior is desired?

Other options: A User branch or project branch.  Would only break when
merging from HEAD.

**Darius:** Development is continuing.

**Q:** Does anyone at the University have a commit bit?  A project
branch may limit their access to their own code.

The team will change focus in July, reducing their availability.

Have received some input via GitHub.

**Matthew:** Discussing future sponsorships of the work.

**All:** Discussing Git/SVN traversal issues.

**Rod:** Can experiment with a user/vendor branch at very low cost,
even if only to test the import.

**Rod:** will create a user branch to try this. Darius will report
this to the team.

## 9pfs

All userspace?  Much safer than save/restore if enabled.  (No
userspace access to CPU registers!)  Should consider committing it
as-is for in-tree iteration.

## Misc

**Scott Long:** Now at Intel on the FreeBSD/All BSD enablement and
support.  Virtualization is important to Intel.  Did work with Xen.
Worked on the VM system at Netflix.

The next meeting falls on the 4th of July: Proposing to shift to the
11th.

Reviews discussion.  Michael reached out about HD Audio
([D12419](https://reviews.freebsd.org/D12419)). mav@ reports that this
was stalled for Capsicum support.

Save/Restore: Use a kernel config option?
