# Attendees

- Anish Gupta
- Michael Dexter
- Elena Mihailescu
- Patrick Mooney
- Sergiu Weisz
- John Baldwin

# Notes

Next meeting moved to March 14 to accommodate Ben and avoid
conflicting with AsiaBSDCon OK with everyone.

**Elena Mihailescu:** Managed to solve the issue from the previous
call.  Not sure how to clear the dirty bit after migrating a page.
Reached out to John and Mark Johnston for advice.  Tried to CC
virtualization@ but it bounced due to too many recipients.  John will
reach out to Mark Johnston.

**Sergiu Weisz:** LibVDSK Testing read/write on QCOW and working next
on snapshot support.  Presenting this work at AsiaBSDCon.  Not ready
for a Review but coming along nicely.

https://github.com/FreeBSD-UPB/freebsd/tree/projects/bhyve_libvdsk

**Patrick Mooney:** Has a list of changes he would like to upstream.
UART issue needed cleanup.  Memory barriers issue probably impacts
FreeBSD too.  vPIT precision issue aims to reduce the size of their
diff.  **Q:** Is anyone willing to review larger changes as they are
going into SmartOS bhyve?  Has an I/O APIC lockup issue with
rendezvous code.  Normally SmartOS uses `#ifdef`s to mark
SmartOS-specific code to ease future merges.  Patrick has a workaround
for the I/O APIC lockup, but it was difficult to maintain when guarded
by `#ifdef`s.  Invitation to review the code early before it goes into
SmartOS rather than only when it is proposed to FreeBSD.

**John** understands the challenge and agrees that early input is
valuable.  Valuable for sweeping changes and should reduce the deltas
to only platform-specific ones.

**Patrick:** SmartOS uses Gerrit.  Good for code review but not always
making edits.  No better or worse than alternatives.  **Q:** What best
means of review?  It should end up in reviews.freebsd.org but not at
the early stages.  Email discussions will continue prior to landing in
reviews.freebsd.org.  **Q:** Who to run reviews by?  Generally start
with John.  Maybe questions about coding style but that can be handled
on a case-by-case basis: focus on function and design prior to style
and format.

## bhyvecon Ottawa

**Michael Dexter:** There will be venue costs.

**Patrick** is happy to discuss specifics on SmartOS, the experience of bringing it up.

**John** is willing to talk about general topics and possibly his debugger.

**Elena**’s paper to BSDCan was accepted.

**Anish Gupta:** Glad to be back!  Working with a stealth mode startup.  Happy to reach out to previous employers if it helps the project.

Last commit was related to AMD IOMMU.  Was looking at AMD APIC
hardware acceleration (AVIC) but lacked the hardware.  Ryzen 1 did not
support it.  Must check spec.  Ryzen 2 should have it.  Patrick may
have a suitable system in the lab.

Not familiar with SEV yet.

**Patrick:** I think it uploads key material to encrypt guest memory
to prevent viewing by the hypervisor.  Not sure how that interacts
with emulating certain things when you have to decode the faulting
instruction.  It's another “nice to have” feature in addition to other
new features on AMD.  APIC virtualization may be most interesting.
VT-d posted interrupts for pass through devices is also of interest.

**Michael:** AMD Lockups: early Ryzen chips had microcode issues and
caused the lockup issue.  Which?  Note this kernel.org ticket:
[Bug 196683](https://bugzilla.kernel.org/show_bug.cgi?id=196683).

**John:** Is SmartOS using bhyve IOMMU code or it's own IOMMU drivers?

**Patrick:** A mix. PCI pass-through: some must be native.  Page table
setup is still FreeBSD code.  Found bugs where trusting userspace for
setting up PCI BARs which can permit userland to examine arbitrary
physical memory on the host.  bhyve can run in a Jail but might not be
properly jailed.

**John**: There is work upstream in FreeBSD to convert bhyve over to
using the IOMMU driver used for regular devices (`ACPI_DMAR`).  Will
try to loop in Patrick with what that ends up looking like in terms of
an interface.  We will eventually want to use a "real" IOMMU driver
for AMD as well due to Thunderbolt and protecting against malicious
peripherals.

**Anish** has insights on the AMD side. No question this needs attention.

**John** has a GitHub repo for minutes and hope to have all FreeBSD
groups put their minutes there. Will move from his own space to
FreeBSD organization on GitHub soon.

**Patrick:** Will review the save/restore code.  Some high-level
concerns about potential deadlocks but will take a look.  SmartOS uses
RFDs: Requests For Discussions to discuss broad, roadmap-level issues.
Do we want to think about how to do similar design-level review for
bhyve?

**Michael:** FreeBSD has the FCP process but is mostly for
project-level changes.

**John:** Going forward I think we can handle design reviews via this
call.  Some of the existing projects span the recent transition and
there might have been earlier design review (e.g. with Peter) that I'm
unaware of.

**Sergiu** is happy to discuss the issues on a separate call or a
scheduled time on this call.

For a todo/wish list:

- AVIC (AMD virtual APIC)
- VT-x Posted interrupts for pass-through devices
- persistent store of NVRAM with UEFI
