# Attendees
- Ed
- Mahya
- Mark

# Agenda
- [markj] ELFtoolchain Capsicumization
- [markj] libnv Linux compatibility
- [emaste] Capsicum-friendly fts(3)
- [emaste] Brian's programming pitfalls

# Notes
Mark pretty much has all of ELF Tool Chain working under Capsicum. Most are
pretty simple, just dump information about the inputs to stdout and the Casper
fileargs service is sufficient.

Two utilities caused grief:
- strip (aka elfcopy/objcopy)
- ar

`strip` creates a temp file to write output and then renames over the input. We
did not have an easy way to create a temp file relative to a directory
descriptor. Also strip previously tried to create tmp files in `/tmp` always,
which results in non-atomic renames if `/tmp` is on a different filesystem.
First step fix that by creating tmp file in same directory.

`ar` is trickier. One of the things `ar` can do is extract all of the contents
(.o files) of an archive to the current directory, but libarchive does not have
such functionality; we don't know what the output names are until we parse the
archive.

libarchive is complicated, and has lots of `#ifdef`s for `HAVE_OPENAT` etc. It
is hard to make this API make sense without `openat` and `*at` syscalls; we
could change the working directory of the process and use normal non-relative
system calls but that seems like a hack. Return an error if trying to use on a
system without `*at` system calls? Mark to discuss upstream, such an API also
allows simplifying `-C` etc.

Some small bugs fixed and being sent upstream already. Can probably add a
libelftc routine to wrap cap_fileargs use.

`ar` also has a script mode where the operations and filenames are passed via a
file or stdin; we could break compatability to disable sandboxing in that mode.

Found an interesting issue with libnv on 32- vs 64-bit FreeBSD, which raises
the question, do we want to continue to support libnv on Linux?

Alan Somers GSoC student has a patch for ping6. Suggestion on the call to look
at all setuid/setgid binaries. Any Capsicum problems from using libxo?

Still wondering about how we can capsicumize system daemons without having to
go through all of their code examining their system calls.

Mahya exploring fileargs, capexec,
[capstart](https://github.com/musec/libcapstart), sandcastles
Mahya, Jon, Mariusz working on parts of this.

Draft finished, in the middle of testing found
[capsh](https://github.com/musec/capsh) has issues, few days ago started moving
to libcapstart. Fileargs requires the same limit on all fds. Mahya working on
more flexible fileargs limits, really need to add this feature to Casper
fileargs service.

Mark thinking about how to build a debugger to help identify capability mode
issues (e.g. use `ptrace` to intercept system calls and log backtrace upon
Capsicum errors)

Discussion about sandbox-friendly APIs, migration of existing libraries to
being more friendly to sandboxing, and promoting existing sandbox-friendly APIs
in third-party projects.
