# Capsicum Call

# Attendees
* kib
* jonathan
* emaste
* markj
* oshogbo
* rstone
* Mahya

# Agenda
* rstone eBPF interposition

# Notes
## eBPF interposition
- Ryan discusses his Capsicum/eBPF work. Linux uses eBPF not only for tracing
  etc. but to extend kernel behaviour (e.g. switching/routing functionality in
  kernel).
- Ryan mentored eBPF GSoC project (initial porting), and has over the last week
  implemented eBPF syscall probes that translate to sandbox-friendly (e.g. open
  to openat). Now at the point where we can run a sandboxed Clang and produce
  a .o.)
- Base system Clang has eBPF output available already (under a build knob).
- About 300 lines of C code compiled to eBPF for the 10 syscalls translated so
  far.
- Discussion about fork to pdfork translation, and different semantics of the
  syscalls. fexec to fexecve, moving fdescfs moving into devfs
- Jon discussed different methods of interposition, and would really like to do
  a comparison of the static and dynamic costs of the various techniques.
- It may be that we want two or three interposition methods.

Links from Ryan:
- The EBPF programs that implement syscall rewriting are here:
https://github.com/rysto32/factory/blob/master/src/capsicum/ebpf_progs/open/open.c
- Most of the work to sandbox the subprocess with capsicum and EBPF is
  done by this class:
https://github.com/rysto32/factory/blob/master/src/capsicum/CapsicumSandbox.cpp
- The in-kernel EBPF interpreter and related machinery can be found in this repo:
https://github.com/rysto32/generic-ebpf

- Discussion about where the translation eBPF programs would live.
- Webassembly as a generic way to plug byte code into the kernel.

## Misc discussion
- Mark hoping to get back to ELF Tool Chain, libarchive next month.
- A discussion to be had about oblivious sandboxing imposed externally vs
  self-sandboxed binaries.
- Mariusz, Mahya still working on the *cap_exec* paper.

- Ryan raises issue of closing fds (e.g. closefrom, closerange on fork) or dup2
  conflicting with oblivious sandboxing.
- could add a flag to prevent closing (kib)

- Ryan's motivating use case: a build tool that eliminates build races, by
  sandboxing the invoked tool and only permitting it to open files explicitly
  provided as dependencies.

- Discussion of fts changes - storing directory fd in struct, use of *at
